The market has been pretty resilient.
>> This has been extremely volatile and I
think [music] investors don't really
know what they're supposed to make of
all of this. In a 6-month window, I can
see a lot of volatility.
>> Now we get whipsawed cuz the positioning
gets really light and momentum unwinds.
[music]
>> The year ends up in a much stronger spot
than we are right now.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowitz,
and Annmarie Hordern.
Live from [music] New York City this
morning. Good morning. Good morning from
our audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts
>> [music]
>> right now. Coming into Friday, it's
payrolls Friday. Economists looking for
the US labor market to bounce back as
crude is heading into the weekend after
hitting multi-year highs. The war
[music] in Iran is closing out week five
keeping investors very much on edge. The
data, it's just around the corner.
>> And the question is why are we here,
right? Because the data is coming out on
Good Friday. Most people are away. The
stock market is closed. The bond market
is remaining open as a courtesy in case
this number matters uh significantly.
People are watching the number as an
understanding of just how much momentum
there has been in the economy heading
into what is otherwise the main story,
the main driver of markets, and [music]
that is the oil shock.
>> give you your Good Friday markets guide.
The equity market trading, equity
futures trading until 9:15 Eastern
[music] time this morning. The bond
market trading, I believe, until midday
noon, 12:00 p.m. Eastern time. So look
out for that. For the market today,
>> [music]
>> for the number 65K, we're looking for a
bounce back from a terrible month, -92K
in the previous month. [music] The
tailwinds here, the end of the strikes
in the healthcare sector one, and the
second, the weather gets a little bit
better. Yeah, so does that offset some
of what we saw, which was a deeply
negative print? Kevin Hassett, the chief
economic advisor to President Trump,
said that you have [music] to look at
the rolling average at the last payrolls
report. So I will be looking at the
rolling average. I'll also be looking at
any revisions.
What is a good number? I keep going back
to this. How much does that matter more
than say the unemployment rate, which
ticked up last month? Do we get that
ticking back down? Is there a sense that
there was some sort of aberration
because of those strikes, etc.? Those
are some of the key points that people
could be looking for. Also, hourly
wages. How much are they actually going
up? As people take your advice, John,
they go to their employer.
>> demand a raise.
>> a raise. Well, let's see if they
actually are doing so and if they're
actually getting it and maybe that'll
show up in the data.
>> The 3-month moving average right now 6K.
It's not a fantastic number and it's
changed dramatically over the last 12
[music] months, which has seen a vicious
negative supply shock to this labor
market. So the break-even rate's come
down a lot for payrolls. The
unemployment rate's [music] still around
4% and the question, I think, going into
this, given the shock in the Middle East
and energy,
>> [music]
>> how tight is this labor market right now
and what is the potential for
second-order inflationary effects? So we
look to wages one and the unemployment
[music] rate two. You know, the fact
that you're focused on inflation, I'm
focused on inflation, is different than
the most of the market, which seems to
think this is a growth shock. The vast
majority [music] of people keep talking,
particularly in the bond market, keep
talking about this is a growth shock. If
there is a lot of heat in the economy,
as you're pointing out, do we have to
reconsider [music] what kind of
inflationary shock there is? Because
guess what? People will be able to go to
their employers to ask for a raise. And
we've already talked about how this
could potentially exacerbate the K shape
of this economy. If the upper end of the
K has more power to ask for raises
because they are more productive with
all this new technology, does that end
up adding to a stickier inflation
backdrop [music] for longer?
>> of questions for Kevin Hassett later on
this morning. The National Economic
Council director joining us around 9:00
p.m. [music] Eastern time, 9:00 a.m.
rather, Eastern time. So look out for
that. I'm not going to be here that
long.
No intention of being here that long.
That conversation a little bit later on
this morning. Also focused on what's
happening in the Middle East, precisely.
You never know. A French-flagged vessel
making its way [music] through the
Strait of Hormuz. That's the good news
this morning for the movement of energy.
The bad news, an Abu Dhabi gas facility
had to halt operations. [music]
Just a reality check about the hostility
still taking place across the Middle
East.
>> And a Kuwait energy and desalination
plant was also uh damaged just a bit in
some of those strikes and with the
debris falling from some of the
missiles. So [music] still damage being
incurred. The French-flagged vessel
being the first Western vessel to pass
through the Strait of Hormuz since the
conflict [music] began. Mixed messages,
this is the theme of 2026. Mixed
messages when it comes to whether we're
getting closer or further away from some
[music] sort of truce or understanding.
>> Equity futures right now on the S&P
-0.3%
on the S&P 500. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Priya Misra of JP
Morgan with stocks coming off three days
of gains. [music] Paul Sankey of Sankey
Research as energy markets face
increasing shortages and Veronica Clark
of Citi looking ahead to the payrolls
report. We begin this hour with stocks
entering lower as markets await a fresh
read on the US labor market. Priya Misra
of JP Morgan writing, "We don't think
risk markets have fully priced in the
scale and length of the energy shock.
Uncertain, untradable, uncomfortable."
All adjectives to describe this market.
Priya, good morning. It's good to see
you. Morning. Before we get into all the
uncertainty and the discomfort, how
relevant is this jobs report later on
this morning? Oh, it's it's it's very
important. I mean, you know, you have to
take each payroll report in in some sort
of average, but there's information
value there. So the information value
that I'll be watching is what happens to
the unemployment rate. What happens to
wages? What was the state of the labor
market heading into this shock? So the
is the underlying momentum in the
economy? Is that resilient? Are we still
in a low higher low fire? So I think it
it sort of sets the stage, you know,
heading into that shock. The other thing
I, you know, I would argue that what
what's the amount of slack in the labor
market? If we're low higher low low
fire, if most of the job gains have been
in the healthcare sector, which are
lower income, lower wage
you know, jobs, is that that that slack
that the second-order effect of
inflation? Cuz, you know, when when we
think about the shock you were just
talking about. There's a growth shock,
there's an inflation shock. For it to
move from headline inflation into core
inflation, you actually need that those
wages to start to pick up. So I'll be
watching all these elements of slack.
Can you know,
can consumers, can households go and
demand that higher wages because they're
paying more to fill their gas? I think
that's the question I'll be watching. I
also think there's a bit of an asymmetry
cuz we've had one really weak report.
Before that, we had a very strong
report. If we get a bit of a weak
report, well, maybe then the economy is
not that resilient. So I think we have
to be watching that market at 8:30 as
much as we all wish we were off today. I
think it's an important report.
>> I think a lot of people share that
sentiment this morning watching this
program. The drop-off we've seen in
payrolls. We've seen a drop-off. By
definition, it's evident. Have we seen a
corresponding increase in slack? That's
what we're trying to understand. Just
how tight is this labor market? And that
speaks to the potential for second-order
inflationary effects. Right. You know, I
think there's some pick up in slack. I
would still say that it there's not a
lot of slack because when we're looking
at, you know, consumer spending is okay.
Consumer confidence, consumer confidence
particularly around finding a job, is
low. So I think that tells me that
there's not a lot of slack. We're still
watching initial claims, you know,
Challenger. All of the elements of the
layoffs stay low. I think that tells you
that the slack is not picking up a lot.
But, you know, I think to see that this
is a tight labor market, particularly
as, you know, is this like 2022? I think
this is what we've all been grappling
with. Or is this like 2008? The economy
is not as weak as 2008. There isn't that
much leverage. But it's not as strong as
2022. So I think as we think about the
central bank reaction function, that
slack question's going to be key. Watch
the unemployment rate. Watch watch
wages. We do think there's some building
slack. But, you know, our base case is
still we stay in the soft landing. And
that's what I think might get challenged
as this energy shock lasts longer. Can
we talk about the asymmetry in market
positioning heading into this? It seems
like every investor who comes on, every
analyst says they're more worried about
the growth shock than they are the
inflation shock. There are a couple of
potential outliers here. When you look
at surveys, that seems to also be the
concern. People are expecting bond
yields to go lower on the soles of what
ultimately will be a growth shock. How
asymmetrically poised is this market to
an upside surprise, to potential
increase to wages leading to stickier
inflation in the core? No, I think
people may not be positioned for that
sticky inflation, particularly we see
inflation expectations rising or we see
wages picking up. I see your point. I
mean, people want to be long, but how
many are long? And that's where I think
the price action in the last few weeks,
month, has, you know, makes people
hesitant because there's fundamentals
and I think we were talking about that
fundamental aspect. This is a tax on the
consumer. If they can't demand higher
wages, then, you know, they're it's
they're going to cut back on spending
elsewhere. This is a growth shock. But
then there's the inflation side and then
you look at market pricing where we were
moving lockstep with oil prices. This,
you know, what we heard from the
president, if we're going to escalate,
oil prices go up. So I think the
technicals imply that people de-risk.
They de-risk on credit. They're
de-risking in equities. They're also
de-risking in duration. So I think they
might want to be long, but they're not
long enough. I would argue this week
gives us a little bit of confidence that
the technicals have improved. A lot of
the rate move was deleveraging. I think
people are fitting a narrative, you
know, to the price action. I think
people buy Treasuries for liquidity.
We have more price-sensitive buyers. If
you can't get your money out of some
other asset classes, private credit, you
sell Treasuries, you sell public credit.
And I think we put that inflation
narrative on it. This week made me feel
like we were not moving one-for-one. So
I think, you know, depending on what
happens with payrolls, we've been
actually now looking at backups as
levels to buy. Technicals are getting
better. If people are right in the bond
space, even not necessarily with
positioning, but just in their sentiment
that this is going to be more of a
growth shock, then why aren't we pricing
that into risk markets? I'm looking at
spreads right now and high-yield bonds
incredibly tight. They've come back in
from some of the spikes recently. You
haven't seen that big of a drawdown from
some of that record highs that we've
seen in equity markets. Feels like
there's a disconnect.
>> There is. I think there's a disconnect
here with the risk complex saying the
fundamentals are strong and that's why
payrolls is important and this is
short-lived. I think we've been also
focused on the off-ramp. I would say we
should also think about the end state.
Then there's an assumption that when the
off-ramp is taken by both sides, this is
not just a one-sided off-ramp, that we
get back to where we were in February.
And I think if the market starts to
focus on what's that end state? Is the
stalls? Does the Strait of Hormuz only
open with Iran controlling it or Iran
and some friendly countries? Well, then
the end state of oil is 90, $100 oil
price. I think then the market wakes up
to this the risk complex wakes up to
this could be a growth shock. On credit,
I'm glad you brought that up. I think
with credit we've been struggling.
Spreads are still very tight. We've been
de-risking. They widened a little bit
then that's not at levels where we would
add risk. We're seeing yield-based
buying, which is again that oh, interest
rates treasuries have risen, spreads are
still tight and so I'm getting 5 and 1/2
6% and all-in yield and that might be an
okay sentiment for buy and hold, but if
we're heading into a slowdown, let alone
a recession, if oil prices stay that
high and the labor market slack starts
to pick up, I actually think then credit
spreads might be vulnerable as well. So
there there may be some outflows because
people see returns. There may be just
concern around can company earnings hold
up. So watch the earnings as the
earnings come out over the next few
weeks. We'll be watching for guidance.
I'm not sure what guidance they can give
because company executives are in the
same uncertain position, but I do I am a
little concerned that if this lasts
longer and that end point is a little
high, that all spreads, particularly
high yield spreads, leverage loan
spreads, think they can widen more. The
banks reporting in two weeks time. So
that's the next stop for the earnings
story. Heard this a lot in fixed income,
particularly from your team, that we're
creating value in the sovereign space of
fixed income, but not in credit and risk
assets more broadly. Yeah, when they're
talking about the sovereign space,
they're also often talking about the
two-year yield. They're not talking
about the 10-year yield because they're
talking about rate hiking expectations
being overblown. I'm thinking about what
the forward guidance could be. I think
it's just going to be a picture of a big
dartboard with the CEO standing there
like this because that's essentially the
forward look that we all have.
>> got bigger problems than just this.
They've had problems that predate these
issues as well. Particularly, you
mentioned private credit, that's
something that comes up repeatedly, too.
Yeah, this is going to be the key
question. How do they delineate both
questions around the underwriting
standards during a very long credit
cycle versus this one-time shock that
potentially has legs?
>> Priya, it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Thanks for making time for
us on this Good Friday. Priya Misra that
of JP Morgan. Equity futures right now
in the S&P negative by about a third of
1% with an update on news worldwide.
With your Bloomberg brief, Yahaira has
more. Hey Yahaira. Hi John.
Iran is escalating attacks across Gulf
energy sites with fires hitting major
facilities in Kuwait and the UAE,
disrupting operations. Though officials
say no casualties [music] have been
reported. President Trump is warning of
further strikes on Iran if it refuses
peace talks.
A French-linked container ship has
exited the Strait of Hormuz. It appears
to be the first Western vessel to
transit the strait since the war began.
The vessel sailed close to Iran's
[music] coast, openly announcing its
country of origin before exiting past
Oman.
And here, Pam Bondi is out as Attorney
General. After an eventful tenure at the
Justice Department, recent months were
[music] marked by various political
battles and controversy over the Epstein
files with Bondi facing criticism from
both sides of the aisle. President Trump
[music] naming Todd Blanche as acting
AG. That's Bloomberg brief, John.
[music] The Dow is no longer at 50K. I'm
just throwing that out there for no
particular reason. Yahaira, thank you.
[music] That was the jump the shark
moment. I think that was it. You know,
in talking When the AG starts commenting
on where the Dow is in response to
Epstein [music] files. Right. Come on.
It's 50,000.
>> And I don't quote the Dow anyway.
Anyway, we'll be back
>> time I've quoted the Dow all year. Well,
you know, quoting Pam Bondi. There we
go. Up next on the program, [music]
ramping up attacks on Iran.
We have our eyes on key targets.
If there is no deal, we are going to hit
each and every one of their electric
generating plants very hard. There's not
a thing they could do about it. Up next,
we're catching up with John Leeba of
Eurasia Group live in New York City this
morning. Good morning.
Counting you down [music] to the jobs
number about an hour and 14 minutes
away. The estimates shaping up as
follows. At the high end, we're looking
for something close to 151. That's the
high estimate. The lowest negative 16K.
If you want the median in our survey,
it's 65,000
>> [music]
>> going into this payrolls report. As for
the equity market, the cash trading
closed out yesterday with the biggest
weekly gain of the year so far. A
three-day winning streak on the S&P,
[music] the most powerful three-day
rally we have seen going back some 12
months or so on the S&P 500 [music] to
May of last year up by around 4%, 3 to
4%. Futures this morning negative by a
quarter [music] of 1%. I found the price
action yesterday really interesting. It
was a wild swing. We were down about
1.5% at [music] the lows and I think
what it exposed or what it spoke to was
what this market wants to see.
And what this market wants to see is
energy moving again. And this market,
[music] I think is somewhat agnostic
about who's controlling the flow of
energy because there was an article that
came out, a report, that Oman and Iran
was working together to formalize their
control of traffic through the Strait of
Hormuz. [music]
The equity market was comfortable and
fact encouraged by that idea and crude
crude looked straight through it. Crude
sees that as a problem and I find that I
find that interesting. Markets are
agnostic. I thought that was exactly the
right way to frame that because
ultimately, as long as you get some
supplies going through, that saves the
economic backdrop for [music] that
otherwise looks pretty solid in a lot of
different regions and as long as you get
the supplies, people can keep doing
their thing. Oil markets are saying this
isn't a feasible solution and that's
what we saw overnight with more attacks
on different facilities in Kuwait in
particular. This is going to be the key
question. What does normal look like
once we're on the other side of this?
>> We're trying to figure that out and just
when we get to the other side. Under
Sefames this morning, ramping up attacks
on Iran.
We are going to hit them extremely hard
over the next two to three weeks. If
during this period of time no deal is
made, we have our eyes on key targets.
If there is no deal, we are going to hit
each and every one of their electric
generating plants very hard. We have not
hit their oil even though that's the
easiest target of all. There's not a
thing they could do about it. So here's
the latest this morning. The president
escalating pressure on Iran to agree to
a deal threatening further strikes on
infrastructure sites after posting a
video of a destroyed bridge near the
country's capital. Bloomberg's Taylor
Kandel joins us now from Washington for
more. Good morning, Taylor.
Hey John, good morning. Well, this marks
a widening of the US's target list as US
officials say that this strike against
this bridge was conducted for military
purposes. It is widely seen as opening
the door to potentially further attacks
on transportation, energy, and maybe
even water infrastructure. But as you've
been discussing, there really hasn't
been any indication that Iran is willing
to budge when it comes to their
response. As Iran continues to hit
energy sites in the Middle East,
including overnight striking an a oil
refinery in Kuwait and causing a natural
gas facility in the UAE to suspend
operations. And while it does appear
that the first Western-owned cargo ship
was able to get through the Strait of
Hormuz, there's also no indication that
Iran is willing to let up its grip when
it comes to the waterway. And as you
mentioned, Iranian state media yesterday
was reporting that Iran is now drafting
protocol with Oman to monitor traffic in
the strait. We heard from the Iranian
Deputy Foreign Minister saying that the
country thinks that these guidelines
should be in place even in peacetime and
that they will start to charge a toll to
these ships. President Trump told Amory
last week he doesn't think Iran should
be able to do this, but the White House
still maintains that it should be on
allies to take charge in reopening the
strait. Yesterday, we saw more than 40
foreign ministers convene to discuss the
issue, but a person familiar with the
matter says that the coalition broadly
agreed that the US needs to make sure
that there is an agreement to reopen the
strait in any potential ceasefire. John,
it feels like the consensus consensus
from allies that they're not going to
deploy military assets just yet. They
need to see a ceasefire in place in
order to do so when it comes to the
Strait of Hormuz. We could later today
see a vote in the UN Security Council
that could authorize the use of maybe
force to reopen the strait, but it's
already reportedly getting pushback from
some members including Russia and China.
Taylor Kandel with the latest in
Washington. Taylor, stay close. We're
looking for further headlines out of the
region. We'll keep tracking that story
for you. John Leeba of Eurasia Group
writes in the following, "The war will
likely continue for at least two more
weeks. The Strait of Hormuz will not
recover to pre-war volumes at any point
in April under any scenario." John joins
us now for more. John, welcome to the
program. I want to focus on this key
point first, which is Iran's attempt to
formalize control of the Strait of
Hormuz. How much success are they having
currently?
Uh quite a bit. Uh
you know, I think that they they've
demonstrated that they have more
capabilities than I think the US
realized going into this war. They've
demonstrated they can intimidate
shippers and insurers at the same time
that they make life pretty miserable for
the Gulf states that they're attacking.
And you're they've demonstrated the
ability to toll this thing for the first
time ever. So they've really this war is
for now fundamentally changed the rules
of safe passage of naval vessels through
waterways and you know, we don't know
how we're going to the the world's going
to get out of this mess. So, the
Europeans have a plan to uh put together
this coalition of the willing that could
help to open the strait and and get get
some kind of deal with Iran. I I don't
think the US and Israel are are anywhere
close to having a deal with Iran. And I
don't think the US has a plan for how to
open the strait except by force, which
is why the troop build-up in the Middle
East is so significant because uh you
know, other than hoping for Iranian
capitulation, the only other op- option
the the options the US has is is leave
and then hope the and then give the
Iranians a victory or escalate this
thing and take it by force. So, I just
don't think there's a lot of good
options on the table here and and and we
don't know where this ends. It's also
more complicated by the fact that US
allies are conceding that this can't be
done through military force. In fact,
the French president, Emmanuel Macron,
I would say was pretty sharp pretty
sharp in the last 24 hours pushing back
quite aggressively against the White
House and saying this can only be done
in consultation
with Iran. Are we able to bring allies
along for the ride with us, John,
because at the moment it looks like a
struggle?
If we here is the US, then no. I mean, I
think the US has really alienated uh a
lot of its traditional allies in this
war. It's alienated the Gulf states uh
who, you know, are want to the US to win
this battle, but are the ones taking it
on the chin right now. And it's going to
alienate countries across Southeast Asia
who are the ones taking the brunt of the
economic pain. So, I think the Europeans
and others right now are looking for end
ways to end run around the United States
hoping that they can somehow uh get
their oil and their other shipments out
uh food, fertilizer, etc. uh without
while the US continues to fight this war
because they have no ability to stop
Donald Trump from from bombing Iran
right now. John, there's a real question
around how much progress has been made
in degrading Iran's capabilities. A
report out yesterday about half of
Iran's missile launchers still being
intact. What's your sense of what's been
accomplished during this uh conflict?
Yeah, I'm glad you brought that up
because I do think that's the key
question to watch over the next couple
of weeks is how much more degradation
the US and Israel can do of these
Iranian capabilities. So, the report
yesterday was that there's about 50% of
their overall missers missiles launchers
left. We think those are mostly short
shorter range missiles, but then they
also have these vast stores of drones,
some of which some of which might be
buried underground uh in ways that are
even inaccessible to the Iranians, but
could be uh recovered later. And I think
that's a big problem for the US as well
because if they end the war with so much
of this Iranian equipment still intact,
it's a threat to the region. It's a
threat to Israel. And I don't think the
you that's considered a victory for the
US. So, this is the the key thing to
watch over the next couple of weeks. If
there's a significant degradation in
Iran's ability to attack, then I think
the US can declare victory. And if not,
then they probably have to press on.
John, just finally, how much domestic
pressure is the president facing right
now? Gasoline prices rising, not doing
well in the polls, getting closer and
closer to the midterms later this year.
A little bit. I mean, I'm actually, you
know, I thought that his address uh the
other night was pretty telling that he
recognizes that he's in some political
pain. You know, his approval rating has
dropped to its lowest level of his
second term, but he's making the case
that this war is important, that the
sacrifice of the military won't be in
vain, and that he's going to press on.
So, there's certainly a lot of
indicators that would suggest he's
feeling the heat. Um I think for now,
he's still got his coalition behind him.
His popularity with Republicans is as
strong as it's ever been. And he
probably has most Republican members in
Congress who are more or less
comfortable with this. We'll see where
they are after they come back from their
April recess. I think that's when the
pressure really starts to ramp up on
Trump. John Laybourn, appreciate your
time, sir, as always. John Laybourn
there of the Eurasia Group. Gasoline
prices on average in this country north
of $4 per gallon and rising.
>> Yeah, this is a reason why you're also
hearing a lot of questions around how
much of a shake-up there's going to be
in his cabinet. Uh you've seen the
initial stages of that with Pam Bondi,
but there are other potential reports as
well. [music]
How do you reshape the narrative heading
into the midterm elections?
>> I'm next on the program. How many times
have you heard the phrase dated Brent in
the last 24 [music] hours? We'll get
into what's happening there with Paul
Sankey of Sankey Research with crude
prices surging ahead of the trading
holiday. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> Equity futures [music] this morning
bouncing off session lows. We're
negative here by about 2/10 of 1%. We'll
be trading on equity futures through to
9:15 Eastern [music] time. The bond
market wide open as well, so check it
out. Yields look like this twos, 10s,
and [music] 30. The bond market trading
until noon. Yields this morning count by
two basis points 382, 10s up a basis
point 431. The jobs report 60 minutes
away. This bond market in an interesting
place right now because the data's
actually been pretty [music] decent so
far this week. Retail sales, ADP,
jobless claims super yesterday morning.
You've seen a positive economic surprise
[music] after positive economic surprise
leading to that index of a surprises
coming to the highest level since 2023.
How many people actually care about this
jobs report? And when you look at some
of the surveys, no one plans on trading
around it. At the same time, it is so
essential to understand how much heat
was in the economy heading into this to
understand whether this is a greater
degree of an inflation shock or whether
this truly can be a growth shock.
>> Things have just settled down a touch at
4:30 on 10s [music] around those levels.
I know it doesn't feel like it, but the
equity market just posted its biggest
[music] weekly gain of the year so far
on the S&P 500. And I'll stress, it
certainly doesn't feel like it, does it?
>> No, because ultimately we've come so
far. Just to give you a sense of where
we are since the last payrolls [music]
report came out in early March, the S&P
is only down 2.2%. It doesn't feel like
that either. It feels like we've been on
a roller coaster. 10-year yields are up
16 basis points. Again, how much is this
the inflationary read-through rather
than the right kind of upside? [music]
2-year yields up though significantly
more. And that I think is what people
are looking at. What is the potential
response
>> [music]
>> from federal officials?
>> It's setting the tone for that is this.
The oil market closed today, but at the
close yesterday, these were the closing
prices.
>> [music]
>> Brent crude at 109, WTI at 111. We just
had the biggest one-day move in almost a
month on WTI crude, and that's closing
going into [music] a long weekend at
multi-year highs.
>> Yeah, and when you take a look at
further out in the curve, you can also
see it creeping higher. People are
expecting uh oil prices to remain higher
for longer as a true physical shortage
takes place in Southeast Asia and
potentially heading toward the European
continent.
>> Who's next? That's the big question on
our radar this morning. President Trump
threatening Iran with more attacks on
the country's infrastructure. Trump
posting a video of a destroyed bridge
near Tehran saying there would be quote
much more to follow if Iran doesn't
agree to a deal. Elsewhere, a
French-owned container ship making a
successful pass through the Strait of
Hormuz on Thursday. The passage
appearing to mark the first time a
Western vessel has transited the choke
point since the war began. And finally,
to Lisa's point, the EU facing a
potential major energy shock due to
impacts from the war. The energy
commissioner telling the Financial Times
that Europe is preparing for the
worst-case scenarios including rationing
and releasing more oil from emergency
reserves.
>> Yeah, that official uh Dan Jorgensen
telling the FT this will be a long
crisis. Energy prices will be higher for
a very long time saying that uh critical
products could be e- also in short
supply and that it will become even
worse in weeks to come. We were speaking
uh with analysts in the past week
talking about how by the summer, if
there isn't free flow of oil and jet
fuel in particular, there is going to be
that rationing that we were reading
about. And a question, are we going to
see pandemic era disruptions to
activity, business activity, that don't
have to do with the price and demand
destruction, but have to do with the
inability to actually get supplies to
engage in commerce?
>> We're discussing the potential risk
here. This is the reality in Asia right
now. There are certain governments for
government workers who have introduced
the 4-day working week. Indonesia has
started to ration fuel. So, when the
Australian prime minister comes out and
says think about getting the train, the
tram, don't use the car to go to work,
they're this close to telling you stop
using the car, you have to use the train
or tram to get to work. In Thailand, in
Bangladesh, you see pictures of people
lining up for hours to get a liter of
petrol. And questions ride shares,
questions around delivery, questions
around tourism, and people actually
getting there because some of these
planes don't have the jet fuel and the
prices are going up. So, the compounding
effect in these nations is sort of a
warning shot for some what will happen
to other regions should this be a
prolonged shock.
>> Let's focus on the physical stress in
the energy market. Pressure building on
energy markets worldwide. WTI coming off
the back of an 11% surge on Thursday as
attacks in Iran press on. Paul Sankey of
Sankey Research writing every single
week now is a week of global shortage.
Paul joins us now for more. Paul, good
morning. Good to see you, sir. Hey.
Physical stress. I don't think I've
heard the phrase dated Brent so many
times as I have done in the last 24
hours. Just walk us through that and
what you saw playing out yesterday in
the physical market. Right. So, the
future uh price of Brent is set for
future delivery, obviously, but then you
actually can trade the physical cargo as
it's available for a relatively short
window. And what we saw yesterday was
just an extraordinary premium that was
paid for a physical cargo today, which
tells you that there's extreme physical
stress in the market, unprecedented,
something like we've never ever seen.
Over $150 Brent, I think that one
cleared for my you would probably
actually know the exact number, John.
But um the other thing that's going on
here is that you have this extraordinary
tanker shortage, obviously, because of
the tankers that are trapped behind the
strait. And as a result, what you're
seeing is $10 a barrel to move crude.
So, we're having some quite weird
effects here. We we've talked about the
WTI discount. You're in a situation
where um US refining is absolutely maxed
out. And with a shortage of tankers and
very expensive tankers, we're not seeing
perhaps as much export from the US as
prices would suggest. So, there's a lot
of tensions and outright shortages that
you've referred to that are that are
kind of breaking through the market, if
you want. Can we just focus on that word
shortages? There's a big focus, of
course, on demand destruction, but this
isn't necessarily about not being able
to afford particular oil product. This
is about not finding it, not having
access to it. Where are you seeing that
more acutely at the moment? Well, that's
a function of just stopping the straits
and then going 4 weeks. So, therefore,
the tankers have stopped arriving as of
this week, and that's where the
shortages show up. That's why we're
saying every day from now is just an
incremental shortage, and then you have
to add 4 weeks for all the tankers to
restart, and then actually reach their
destination. So, you're going to see
absolutely physical shortages in Asia.
There's no question about that. And
then, of course, you've got those such
as the Chinese that are still accessing
oil, LNG, reselling some of it,
interestingly enough, but the Chinese
also banned exports of products. They
were a major supplier into to Asian
markets. So, what you're seeing here is
diesel, jet fuel over $250 a barrel in
Singapore, and you know, that's going to
obviously have an enormous negative
economic impact. The interesting thing
here, Mark, in terms of physical
shortages is this time we have physical
shortages
in Russia-Ukraine. It was a buyer
strike. In COVID, it was a buyer strike.
This time you can't buy it if you want
it, or you've got to pay enormous
amounts of money for it. So, we think
that the Taiwanese will be able to buy
the LNG they need. We know, we think the
Singaporeans will access energy, but you
know, what happens in Pakistan, what
happens in Vietnam, what happens in
Bangladesh is very, very concerning,
indeed. It's sort of split into the
haves and the have-nots of nations. The
ones that can actually afford to pay for
it, the ones that can't, and are now
suffering the shortages. In Southeast
Asia, there are quite a number of those
countries. I'm just wondering if you
have a map of the physical shortages
spreading, not like unlike the pandemic,
but spreading in terms of locations.
Places that have stockpiles, that can
release SPR, and how long it'll take to
unwind. How close is Europe, for
example, of joining Southeast Asia in
actual physical shortages? Very. And I
think, you know, the concern here is
that you've also announced more or less
a 3 million barrel a day emergency
release into the market, and we're still
seeing, you know, paper paper Brent's
alone at over 110. So, you know, the
idea that we're going to burn through
this oil that's being emergency released
is, you know, now as each day goes on,
and as the president's implied that will
be at least 2 to 3 more weeks before
anything settles down, you're going to
actually burn through your emergency
stocks, and then you're going to have a
really nasty decision as to whether you
keep an emergency emergency stock, or
whether you just burn through the whole
lot. The basic forecast show that you're
going to draw down OECD inventories by
about a billion barrels over the next 60
to 90 days, which is completely
unprecedented, and would imply, whereas
the futures market is saying $70 oil,
bizarrely, the the level of structural
stock drawdown speaks to 150 or or above
on the regression of price versus
inventory, and you know, it's just it's
just one of those anomalies of the
market that the futures market is so
absolutely not not reflecting what's
happening today in Brent, presumably
because of the assumption of major
demand destruction and the potential for
some barrels to escape, such as we saw,
in fact, the overnight news, John, as a
couple of tankers made it through as
well today. How much are US producers
and other producers ramping up
production and actually getting them out
on the seas to help meet this demand?
How much could it be a supply-driven
response as much as demand destruction?
Yeah, I mean, we've seen a spike in US
exports from nothing like what you would
have thought given the price
environment. And the other
counterintuitive thing is that US
inventories are actually rising of
crude. And that's what's telling me that
the US refiners are maxed out, and the
tankers are either not available or too
expensive. That's the only reason I
could think why you would be building
inventory in the US. The other strange
thing was that, well, not really
strange, but the real fact is that only
about half of the SPR drawdown, the
American emergency release, was actually
taken by refiners, which was
interesting, and that's because they
would have to buy pay back today's
barrels with interest in the future, and
they basically don't want to take that
risk. So, these are all, you know,
unintended consequences and other
consequences that you find as you go,
you know, because this obviously is an
unprec- unprecedented catastrophe for
energy supply globally. Paul, we were
speaking to a guest yesterday who comes
from coastal California, and we asked
how much he was paying for gasoline
right now, and I think he said north of
$7 a gallon. I hear a lot of people when
they come on this program, particularly
the equity guys, and I'm not criticizing
the equity guys, but they often talk
about how insulated America is on the
energy front, because America's a net
exporter of energy.
But it's about having the right crude in
the right places at different times than
what the refiners are set up to use. Can
you just walk us through that briefly?
Just give us the nuance about how much
more complicated that one-liner is to
say we're a net exporter and we're
insulated from a lot of this. Well, the
global tightness is in European natural
gas and Asian jet and diesel and global
diesel, and for all of those, you
basically would like Middle Eastern
heavier sour crude to make in
refineries. The light sweet has a lower
yield of distillate. That's the the
US-based domestic production is all
light sweet, and it just gives you a
lower cut of distillate, and
distillate's what they desperately want.
You've actually seen quite weak gasoline
margins. There's kind of too much
gasoline right now. And so, they're
really struggling to optimize their
throughputs in order to get the right
crude, and that's, you know, been
severely cut off by by the the Hormuz
crisis. The other aspect here is just
raw sulfur is desperately needed, and
that comes out of the Middle East. That
also is hugely important and can be used
in refining, as well. So, there's
there's a major issue with crude
qualities, and particularly with the
tightness that you're seeing in
distillate markets, which really is you
know, where we're having a massive
problem and a massive economic problem.
Is there any scenario that you could
foresee that would justify the $97.52
that the June WTI contract closed out
yesterday?
For June, it's difficult to imagine why
that wouldn't be higher, just because,
you know, we're throwing emergency
stocks here. We've got at least 4 weeks
of continued outage based on what the
president is saying. You know, you
assume that the Iranians are not going
to just quietly say, "Okay, let's
pretend that never happened." You assume
that the Iranians are going to extract
maximum pain here
until they get what they want, which
presumably is the US basically to leave
the region forever, and and presumably
some sort of control on Israel. So,
they're a long way from what I think
they want, and it's a question of really
what the Revolutionary Guard want here,
not what the president's saying. The
Iranian president's not very powerful
person, quite frankly. It's all about
the Revolutionary Guard, and I think
they're going to extract their they're
going to extract their return for
for what's happened here, unfortunately.
So, that's that's the biggest concern is
that nobody's asking what Iran wants and
how far they'll go. And the overnight
the yesterday's attack on a bridge by
the US, a major iconic Iranian bridge,
has yielded an attack on a desalination
plant in Kuwait today. So, the idea that
the Iranian
command structure has broken down, if
you actually look at it, you've got
issues with the command structure in the
US with Hesketh changing out senior
military leaders. And in Iran, we seem
to have a very consistent pattern where
they set a deadline, it's not met, and
they do exactly what they said they
would. That's pretty terrifying, because
that tells you they have a very
in-place, relatively sophisticated
command structure, and that was the hope
is that you would break down the command
structure, and then you would weaken
Iran to the point that the the people
could rise up, and it's just not
happening. To that point, Paul, there's
been a change in the language from the
US administration more recently.
And I'm not sure how palatable this
change in the language is for many
people. To bomb them back to the Stone
Ages one, to go after the civilian
infrastructure two. It used to be we
used to talk about this only a month
ago, that they would degrade Iranian
military capabilities to such an extent
that the people would rise up and topple
the regime. But if you're talking about
the country in such a fashion, if you're
doing the kind of things that we're
talking about that doing at the moment,
it's going to make that harder and not
easier. How do you win hearts and minds
if people are struggling to get water
and energy? And that's part of the
problem right now, and something that
people are debating. Paul, it's good to
see you.
Thanks for making time for us, sir.
Thank you. Thank you very much. Paul
Sankey there, S&P Global Research. Let's
get you an update on stories worldwide
this morning with your Bloomberg Brief.
Yahaira is with us for more. Hey,
Yahaira. Hi, John.
More than 40 US allies holding a meeting
to discuss reopening the Strait of
Hormuz. The countries [music] are
weighing potential sanctions against
Iran if the country doesn't agree to
unblock the [music] route. Notably, the
US did not take part in the talks. The
group will meet again
>> [music]
>> next week.
Abu Dhabi suspending operations at its
biggest natural gas processing facility
after a fire. [music] It's the second
time operations at the project have been
halted since the war in Iran started.
The site is central to UAE gas [music]
supply and oil exports.
And Blue Owl shares are down more than
[music] 40% year-to-date as pressure
mounts on the private credit firm.
Investors have been rushing for the
exits
>> [music]
>> with redemption requests recently
topping 20% in its flagship fund and
[music] 40% in a tech-focused vehicle.
The firm has capped withdrawals at 5%.
That's Bloomberg Brief. John. Yahaira,
thank you. Thank you for the update.
More from Yahaira in the next hour. Up
next on the program, counting down to
payrolls. [music]
Given the data on the eve of the Iran
conflict, people are actually very
confused and uncertain, and I think that
hiring rate
will remain low
for the foreseeable future until we
figure out what is going on. Up next,
we'll catch up with Veronica Clark of
Citi. Live from New York, this is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
Live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Equity futures shaping up as
follows, heading into the payrolls
report about 42 minutes away. Equity
futures right now down by 2/10 of 1%
following a 3-day winning streak, the
first 3-day rally we've seen on the S&P
since this war started. [music]
On the Nasdaq, we're down by 0.3. On the
Russell, we're down by 0.4. Equity
futures keep trading until 9:15 Eastern
time. In the bond market, 2s, 10s, and
30s, yields look like this, slightly
higher by two basis points at the front
end of the curve, 3.82, settled down now
off the highs of the year, which were
north of 4% by the way.
After the chairman of the Federal
Reserve put a bit of a dampener on rate
hike expectations. Yeah, talked about
how they're watching inflation
expectations, and as long as inflation
expectations seem to be in check, which
based on break-even rates, they've
actually gone down as this conflict has
continued, at least in the longer term,
that's what they're getting some comfort
from, that they really are in a good
position to do [music] absolutely
nothing.
>> Let's turn to the oil market, doing
nothing today because it's closed, but
doing a lot yesterday. At Thursday's
close, WTI closing higher by more than
11%.
That's the May contract. The closer you
are to physical delivery, the bigger the
move and the higher the price. So-called
dated Brent, so this is a cleaner read
on physical delivery,
clearer supply and demand at spot. We're
not talking about [music] paper markets
here. We're talking about getting a
cleaner read on physical delivery. We've
got a number north of 140, the highest
since 2008.
That's real money. There are real
physical shortages right now. [music] We
were just talking to Paul Sankey about
that, and the difficulty right now is
the countries that can afford to pay
those nosebleed prices [music] to get
the get petrol, to get the gasoline.
Singapore is a wealthier country.
Thailand and Vietnam struggling right
now. And so the hit to GDP in some of
the Southeast Asian countries that are
most exposed, that don't have the
supplies to really pay for [music] it,
are going to be severe. And and people
are watching for this to spread as the
shortages [music] get more severe. The
next phase of this is show me the data,
the economic data and the earnings. This
morning's about the data. Under
Savannah's this morning, counting down
to payrolls.
Some people are struggling and to find a
job. Look at the consumer confidence
labor differential. People are saying
>> [music]
>> it's very difficult to find a job,
right? And that's why they're not
quitting. Given the data on the eve of
the wrong conflict, people are actually
very confused and uncertain, [music] and
I think that hiring rate
will remain low
for the foreseeable future until we
figure out what is going on.
So here's the latest this morning.
Investors are awaiting the payrolls
report. The median estimate in our
survey calling for 65,000 jobs added in
March. Veronica Clark of Citi writing
risks are balanced to softer readings
that would have markets pricing in more
policy rate cuts. Veronica joins us now
for more. Veronica, good morning. Good
morning.
>> Let's start with 8:30, 40 minutes away.
What are you expecting? Right on
consensus, also expecting 65,000. Um
that's going to look like a stronger
number relative to the 92K decline we
had in in February. Um there are some
issues in that, you know, we had a
strike that was weighing on that
February number. That strike has ended,
so that's that bounce back is going to
be in this March number. Um the most
important detail is probably the
unemployment rate still. It was very
close to rounding to 4.5% in February.
Um it could round to 4.5, it could stay
at 4.4. We think it stays at 4.4. Um but
overall, this should be a relatively
benign number, but it is going to feel a
little bit stale because this is March
data. It's you know, we're not going to
see any effects of higher oil prices.
>> do you expect it to change in the months
to come? Yeah, I mean it is interesting
that, you know, this shock is hitting at
a time of year when businesses start to
pick up their hiring for the year. Um
there's been a very interesting pattern
um in the data over the last couple
years where really from about September
through February, um things look stable,
the unemployment rate moves sideways. Um
and then that lack of hiring that is
really defining this labor market, that
shows up as weaker data at the time of
year you're supposed to hire people. You
get new students looking for work. Um
it's really been late summer when the
unemployment rate is rising, and so
yeah, I expect to see that again this
year.
>> Are there any clues that we can glean
from the March report that gives us a
sense of the willingness of some
employers to ramp up their hiring, the
need for employees, and the tightness in
the labor market?
>> Yeah, I mean we'll obviously see it
maybe a stronger headline number.
There's going to be those strike
effects. Um but yeah, I would kind of
average through all this Q1 data, and
maybe we're averaging something like
30,000 payrolls, which I would actually
say is around a break-even rate, so
they're we're we're kind of running
stable there. Um but the hiring details,
we get more from the JOLTS data, which
we got the February JOLTS data earlier
this week. Um there was a big drop in
the hiring rate in February, and that
shouldn't necessarily be so surprising.
We saw that very weak February payroll
number, um but it was even weaker hiring
than I would have expected. We're
essentially at April 2020 levels for the
hiring rate now. That's a very
uncomfortable position to go into a new
shock in. Based on how companies have
been behaving in the past couple of
months, how likely is it that they'll
respond to a higher costs coming from
commodity prices, coming to the lack of
flow through the Strait of Hormuz by
just simply delaying hiring plans?
>> Yeah, that is my concern, and I think
that's a real risk. I think that's
probably how they they would respond. We
have very limited data so far for for
March. We got the jobs report from the
NFIB survey yesterday. We'll get the
full survey next week. Hiring plans are
still very low there.
Um we have, you know, high-frequency
data on job postings from indeed.com.
Those have come down in March. Um so
yeah, I would worry in an environment
where for a couple years businesses have
been looking to cut labor costs by not
hiring, that just gets worse this year
as input costs are higher. And then
we've got to think about AI. There was a
line that you used yesterday, Brahma,
off the back of the Challenger job cuts
report. The quote was as follows,
companies are shifting budgets towards
AI investments at the expense of jobs.
>> Yeah. Are you seeing that in the data
now?
>> Yeah, it's going to be really hard to
pick out the details in the aggregate
data, I think. You know, we're relying
on company anecdotes and some of these
surveys. Um those Challenger numbers are
interesting, but I would never, you
know, base a forecast on it necessarily.
Um in a normal month, we have to
remember there are 1.7 million layoffs.
You know, are people just going to say
that that's AI-related cuz it's a
relatively friendly excuse? You know,
you're increasing productivity. Um but
yeah, it's it could be a reason why
businesses won't be hiring Let's get to
what it means for the Fed. So financial
conditions have tightened. Yeah. We've
seen that play out in financial markets.
The Fed, based on their guestimate of
where neutral is, slightly restrictive.
They believe they're in a good place.
Yeah.
>> believe they're in a good place? I think
for for now, um but I think they will be
cutting later this year. You know,
either the oil disruption is relatively
short-lived enough, which that looks
maybe less and less likely, um and you
don't get that kind of pass-through to
core inflation. They're obviously
watching inflation expectations, which
have stayed anchored enough. Um but I
think it is fair that this is just a
very different demand backdrop than the
shock we had 4 years ago, and this is
not a tight enough labor market that you
get those wage pressures, and it doesn't
become more persistent inflation. Um so
I could see the, you know, as we get to
the second half of the year, maybe the
pass-through hasn't been that big, or
we're looking at other scenarios where
the shock is even longer lived, and
financial conditions tighten more, and
that's a negative growth implication.
>> we're all hoping that's not the case.
Veronica, it's good to see you. Thank
you. Veronica Clark there of Citi,
looking for 65K later this morning. That
incidentally also the median estimate in
our survey, that number dropping at 8:30
Eastern time. That's the question for
the Fed. Are they in a good place, and
do they have the luxury of waiting?
Waiting to see what the data looks like
through the summer. And what is the
indicator that they're going to look at
to get that give them that comfort,
given that these have been messy
figures? We don't have a clear sense of
exactly what the break-even rate. We
were talking to Veronica, she said
30,000 on average is about the
break-even rate. I'm looking at the
composition. If it's all health care and
a rebound from health care, is that a
good thing? Well, we're getting sick and
we're getting old, and people need to
take care of us, and those are a staple
of the labor market that are sort of
cycle independent, agnostic. We want to
see a broad-based increase in hiring,
and that's what I'm going to be looking
for.
>> uncomfortable with this new break-even
rate. I can feel that with the doves.
It's been such a steep, quick fall off.
And we're looking at a 3-month average
of 6K. If you looked at that alone,
you'd be concerned about the labor
market. You look to unemployment, which
should anchor your view of where slack
is and what slack looks like. Is it
increasing or decreasing, and it's
certainly less dramatic. It's difficult
to understand this market at a time of
rapid transition on multiple fronts. Up
next on the second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance this morning, we'll catch
up with Victoria Fernandez across Mark.
Michael Collins of PIMCO, Stephanie Roth
of Wolfe Research, Aditya Balivada of
Bank of America. The jobs report just
around the corner.
>> [music]
>> We lost the plot on the underlying
economic strength coming into this. The
inflation numbers You're going to see
pretty quickly We're already going to
[music] see a significant impact on
growth. I think the economy's going to
be okay. I don't think we'll come out of
this [music] unscathed. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Annmarie
Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The second [music]
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance starts
right now with your jobs report just
around the corner. The number 30 minutes
away. [music] The scores into it look
like this. Equity futures on the S&P
negative by 2/10 of 1% following a 3-day
winning streak on the S&P [music] and
closing out the week on Thursday for the
biggest weekly gain of the year so far.
On the Nasdaq, down by a quarter of 1%.
On the Russell, negative 0.4. In the
bond market, which will be trading now
for the next 4 hours, yields are higher
by two basis points. The 2-year at 3.81
on [music] a 10-year this morning at
4.31. Yields a little bit higher there
at the front end and the long end of the
curve. Heading into [music] this, and
this number is where the bar is at this
morning. The median estimate for us is
65K.
The previous number, an ugly negative
92. Yeah, how much we need to see a
rebound in the number to understand the
upside surprises in economic data that
we've gotten recently as a trend,
[music] and something that does indicate
that the US economy is coming to this
shock from a relatively strong position,
enough to withstand it. Here are the key
questions. How much does it take for
this market to move [music] off this
number? Because ultimately, people are
watching oil prices, they're watching
the headlines to understand how
significant and long-lasting that oil
shock [music] is going to be. Is it
asymmetrically poised to a downside
surprise being incredibly negative and
underscoring [music]
how much this is a growth shock, not an
inflation shock?
>> The risk cuts both ways, and given how
you described it, I think it's really
important. It [music] will help us
answer a central question for the
outlook. How tight is the labor market?
And once you've established that, which
will [music] be somewhat of a debate, I
imagine. Once you've established that,
the arguments around it, you can start
to think about the potential for second
order inflationary effects. [music] Do
you have the potential to go and ask for
a raise because the price at the pump is
too high, or does it result
>> [music]
>> in so-called demand destruction? You
heard Jim Zelter of Apollo sounding off
there about the momentum coming [music]
into '26. And there was momentum. This
was a consensus looking for a cyclical
rebound and tons of tailwinds. A lot of
capex coming from tech firms. We were
going to see some tax refunds for
individuals, and things were set to get
better because the Fed had already been
cutting interest rates.
>> [music]
>> Do we still believe in those so-called
tailwinds?
>> Yeah, and I know that you've been
single-handedly trying to create a wage
price spiral, but people are watching
and seeing how much people are like
Steven Englander and not going to be
asking for a raise, even though you
should. Or are people going to be able
to say we need to be offset for some of
the higher prices that we're [music]
paying? We'll see that in the wage
number. We'll see that in the
unemployment number today. Does it stay
at 4.4%? The headline number kind of a
mystery. Right now it seems though as if
most people who come on this show in the
bond space are [music] expecting this to
be a hit to growth, not necessarily an
increase in stickiness and inflation. So
again, the asymmetric position of this
market heading into this, and whether
risk assets are fully priced it in.
Again, we keep talking about the
dissonance right now between bonds and
stocks.
>> There's a phrase that's starting to bug
me in fixed income, and you know what it
is? Creating value. I keep hearing this
phrase, "We're creating value in fixed
income." As bonds are sold off and
yields rise towards the highs of the
year. That makes me think, and we've
talked about this a [music] few times,
that the pain trade here is high yields.
Not necessarily the most likely trade,
and you can decide which direction you
think we're going to go in, and that's
your judgment. But the most painful
trade is the [music] one people are
least positioned for. And what I hear
from people in fixed income is they
believe we've created value, which means
there's a bias here now to buy
regardless of what might happen next.
>> a survey, a pre-NFP nonfarm payroll
survey done by Uh Bill Hartman put
this out and said just 24% of
respondents saw the direction of the
next 15 basis point move in 10-year
yields
>> [music]
>> as higher. That is the lowest proportion
of respondents since November 2010. Most
think it is heading lower because of
that growth shock, and it just
highlights the asymmetric position right
now. One study this morning, the equity
market as well. We're down by about a
tenth of 1% [music] now on the S&P 500.
A couple of programming notes for you.
So the equity market, equity futures
will be trading through to 9:15 Eastern
[music] time, so another hour and 10
minutes. The bond market trading until
midday, so noon, another 4 hours let's
call it. And in between we'll be
catching up with this guy right here,
the National Economic Council director
Kevin Hassett joining the program in
about 55 minutes time [music] to get his
thoughts on the labor market and this
shock in the Middle East and what it
means for the US economy.
>> Yeah, back when you spoke to him last
[music] month, or I guess at the last
payrolls report, he was talking about 4%
GDP and we can reach [music] a place
where you don't necessarily have
incredibly high payrolls number, but
that isn't dissonant with the idea of a
robust economy. It is a productivity
shock. [music] How much has that been
eaten away by the oil price shock? Do we
have a sense yet? Has there been any
kind of evidence to understand whether
[music] there is already a hit to his
expectations for the year? That
conversation coming up in the next hour.
Coming up this hour, [music] we'll catch
up with Victoria Fernandez of Crossmark.
Mark follow with the stock market's best
weekly gains so far this year. Michael
Collins of PGIM warning the economy may
get worse before getting better. And
Stephanie Roth of Wolfe Research
breaking down the latest jobs report. We
begin this hour as investors search for
clarity heading into the long weekend.
Victoria Fernandez of Crossmark Global
Investments writing, "Unfortunately, the
crystal ball is a little fuzzy right
now, which leaves us wanting to lean
more towards risk-off positioning for
our clients." Victoria joins us now for
more. Victoria, good morning and welcome
to the show. I want to start with
payrolls at 8:30 and a question we keep
leaning on. How instructive do you think
this data actually is?
Yeah, good morning. I just really don't
think people are going to pay as much
attention to this number as they are the
headlines that are coming out of the
Middle East at this point in time. I
think your biggest change when you guys
are talking about how much of an effect
will it have on the market, I think if
you have a very downside surprise to
this number, you might see more market
reaction than if you have an upside
surprise. And and I'm guessing when you
look over the last 12 months, you have a
monthly average of around 13,000, and
you guys are talking about the types of
jobs that have been created. If you take
health care jobs out, we actually have
negative job growth over the last 12
months. So when I look at last month at
a negative 92,000, I think what we're
going to see today is maybe a larger
revision to that number and then a
smaller number um for the month of
March, and I think the market will
probably shrug that off a little bit.
Victoria, then the next phase of the
conversation is earnings. 2 weeks away,
we'll be talking about the banks and the
financials. And when we speak to the
equity bulls, and you don't sound like
one at the moment, but when we speak to
them, they're anchored by a better
outlook for earnings. Do you believe
this shock in the Middle East is a
threat to corporate margins?
I think it can be a shock to margins if
it continues to go on for much longer.
We're hearing right now what, 2 to 3
weeks more is what the president said
this week in
in his address, that that's how long
we're going to be there. We don't know
truly what the answer is. That's where
we have that fuzzy crystal ball. But if
it goes on for longer, then yes, we are.
Look at the ISM manufacturing report we
had this week. Prices paid really moved
significantly higher. At some point
that's going to flow through and hit
margins. And when it does, that's when
we're going to see the growth component
come in. Your conversation this morning
around, you know, is it inflation, is it
growth concerns right now? Five-year
five-year um break evens are telling you
that inflation expectations on the
longer end are not moving higher right
now. But yet you have yields that are
not going tremendously lower either,
which is what you would expect if there
was a growth scare. So I think a lot of
people are saying, "Look, we're in a a
decent position as long as we can get um
the situation in the Middle East settled
pretty quickly, and earnings should hold
up." I'm not sure about this 13, 14%
earnings growth again in the first
quarter. 19% earnings growth in the
second quarter is what expectations say.
That's a really high bar. Victoria,
you're based in Houston, which is sort
of the oil heartbeat of the United
States. What are the conversations like
with people in the area given the fact
that this could potentially be a boon to
certain companies given the fact that
the United States is an exporter of oil
versus people seeing what's happening on
the ground, getting concerned about
refined products and how much uh the US
can really support some of the need
around the world?
Yeah, you know, Lisa, I looked out the
window when President Trump was saying,
"Buy US oil" to see if I could see, you
know, people jumping up and down and
cheering across the street at the oil
company offices. Um but the difference
that we're seeing right now is these
companies are not making major
investments at this point in time.
They're not saying, "Oh look, the price
of oil is high. Let's go start drilling
more. Let's do new wells." They're not
putting that investment back into the
ground, I think because there is such
high uncertainty. Maybe we see that in
the future, but it's not an immediate
reaction right now. Yes, we've seen
energy um companies do better, but look,
energy was actually as a sector doing
better before everything happened in
Iran. They were actually on an upswing.
There was an uptrend in that sector when
you looked at the technical components.
So they were already doing pretty well.
This can be a short-term bump to them,
but I don't see at this point in time
that it's making a long-term shift in
expectations for oil companies. That can
change quickly if we do start to see um
some of the the companies really get
orders, additional orders. Cheniere's a
perfect example when you're looking at
natural gas, too. That is an area where
I think maybe we see it pick up in terms
of US purchases. What does it mean right
now, Victoria, to be risk-off or to go
to safer investments given the
multifaceted risks posing market facing
markets, whether it's growth shock or
inflation?
Yeah, [snorts] our clients want to know,
"Does that mean we go to cash?" No. The
answer is do not go to cash, right? But
I do agree that you could get caught in
a trap of saying, "Well, let's just go
all in on fixed income at higher
yields." Obviously, I manage some
taxable fixed income strategies. So I do
think there's some buying opportunities
in some of the fixed income areas, but
similar to equities, you've got to do
that high-quality portfolio right now.
On the equity side, we have more of a
lean towards value, towards dividend um
strategies. On the fixed income side,
it's high quality. We've seen investment
grade spreads year-to-date go out about
11, 12 basis points on average. High
yield has widened out about 65 basis
points on average. So to us, it's going
high quality, sticking to those
companies with strong balance sheets.
>> Victoria, just a final word on energy.
Lisa asked you about it. What's the
energy opportunity? We've had such a big
rally in some of the refiners here in
the United States. Where is the
opportunity if there is one left?
Yeah, that's the question. Is there one
left? And I think actually, and what
we're doing with some of our clients,
you can trim some of those names that
have done really well, but keep that
exposure because I think there is still
more upside. That uptrend is still
intact. Use any pullbacks in energy to
add to positions. Victoria, good to see
you as always. Victoria Fernandez there
of Crossmark Global Investments. The
supply response is really, really
important. The physical market's
demanding one.
The long end of the futures curve is not
an encouraging one. And that's the
dynamic we've got at the moment. And the
fact that the US is already pumping 13
million barrels a day, so this already
is coming from a pretty high level.
Questions also about the frictions right
now between the pumped goods and the
amount that refineries can actually
refine to get out there. So, there are a
lot of different moving pieces before
some of these oil executives say, "Now's
the time to drill, baby, drill." Futures
right now in the S&P negative by just
0.2% down by 2/10. Going into this
payrolls report about 20 minutes away.
Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yohara has more. Hey,
Yohara. Hi, John. [music]
Iran is escalating attacks across Gulf
energy sites with fires hitting major
facilities in Kuwait and the UAE
disrupting operations. [music] Though,
officials say no casualties have been
reported. President Trump is warning of
further strikes on Iran if it refuses
peace talks.
EU officials are warning that Europe
faces a prolonged energy crisis as the
Middle East conflict disrupts supply and
spikes prices. The FT reporting that
Brussels is weighing emergency steps
including fuel rationing and tapping oil
reserves. Though, it says the block is
not facing a supply crisis
>> [music]
>> just yet.
And the Trump administration set to
impose tariffs of as much as 100% on
certain imported medicines [music] as
President Trump ramps up pressure on the
drug makers to manufacture in the US.
Tariffs on imports from major economies
[music] that cut deals with the White
House will be capped at 15%.
That's your Bloomberg brief, John.
Yohara, thank you. Thanks for the update
from Yohara later this morning. Up next
on the program, Michael Collins of PIMCO
warning the economy may get worse before
getting better. That conversation up
next and your payrolls report just
moments away. 8:30 [music] Eastern time
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
There's a bit [music] of an asymmetry.
Cuz we've had one really weak report.
Before that, we had a very strong
report. If we get a bit of a weak
report, well, maybe then the economy is
not that resilient. [music] So, I think
we have to be watching that market at
8:30 as much as we all wish we were off
today. I think it's an important report.
We love being here, Prem. What are you
talking about? Come on. Prem is with us
there at JP Morgan. It's a strange one.
It happens every few years. You have a
payrolls report on a good Friday. A
happy Easter to [music] you all, to
those who celebrate on the long weekend.
The payrolls report about 14 minutes
away. 8:30 Eastern time. Equity futures
are trending. The bond market as well.
Talked about this a few times. If you're
just joining us, equity futures trading
for the next 60 minutes or so. The bond
market [music] trading through to noon.
Equity futures on the S&P this morning
down by 2/10 of 1%. The Nasdaq down by
0.3. [music]
We've had quite a powerful 3-day rally
on the S&P 500, the strongest going back
to May of last year. We just put up the
best weekly gain [music] of the year so
far on the S&P. In the bond market,
we've backed away from the highs of the
year on twos and on 10s. [music] On
twos, it was north of 4% the past few
weeks. On 10s, very close to 450. On 10s
this morning, 431. Yields up by single
basis point.
>> With a lot of bond investors looking to
buy and I think that this is
interesting. Poised for a further rally
because the shock is perceived as a
growth shock even though the economic
data has been really positive heading
into this. Just how much [music] value
has been unlocked, John? That's the key
question I want
>> Value has been created. We've said it so
many
>> [laughter]
>> times. So, I'm going to troll you so
[music] well with that. You know, they
said the same thing about the equity
market. The outlook for earnings is
good. There's an opportunity. Value has
been created. Multiple compression has
arrived.
>> People believe that ultimately this will
end at the end of the year to quote what
we heard yesterday from Jim Zelter of
Apollo. September, October will be
looking back toward an economy that's
robust. It'll be in the rearview mirror.
You talk to people in the commodity
space who are under their seats biting
their nails, it's suddenly a different
story. Yeah, the conversation we often
have, [music] I think, in the equity
market is the potential for demand
destruction.
Let me talk about the potential. It's
real. It's happening right now. You can
see it in Asia with certain governments
introducing a 4-day work week. You can
see it in places like Indonesia [music]
rationing fuel. You can see it in other
nations across Asia as well. And there's
a fear
in the commodity market. And if you're
in equity [music] land, it's an
anticipatory asset class. Maybe you're
looking through that. You're welcome to.
But there's a fear in the commodity
market that Europe might be next. And
that's the problem. [music] Which
especially given the fact that people
are talking already about rationing. Key
question for the US market is A, [music]
how insulated is it from the global
market should there be a slowdown based
on actual physical shortages? That's
number one. Number two, how sensitive is
the consumer based on what [music]
they're getting from their paycheck,
their belief in getting a new job, and
just how much they can ask for a raise
when they have their annual discussion
with their with their managers. So,
these are the questions
>> [music]
>> that a lot of people are trying to
answer, glean signals from the data that
we're getting in just about 12 minutes
time.
>> Here's another view on things from
Michael Collins of PIMCO fixed income.
He writes the following. The fragile
balance in the US labor market is at
risk. Goes on to say, "My instinct is
telling me that economic and market
conditions will get worse before they
get better." Mike joins us now for more.
Mike, good morning and welcome. You're
going to be with us through the payrolls
report. What is underpinning your
instinct right now that tells you that
at the moment? What are you looking at?
What's on your dashboard? What guides
you?
Yeah, you know, Jonathan, I'm typically
a pretty optimistic
>> [clears throat]
>> guy, especially for a bond
investor. But, you know, I'm talking to
our economics and and geopolitical
right? One is that things get a lot
worse. And two is that we kind of have
some really watered-down
ceasefire where things basically go back
to where they were before we started
bombing them. And both of those are bad
outcomes, right? I mean, to see through
this as a really positive outcome
for the global markets, at least in the
near term, think of, you know, maybe
through the rest of this year is really
a challenge. You know, normally I'm I'm
here saying, "Listen, we are buyers on
dips." Right? Because the Fed will come
to the rescue if things really get ugly.
But the Fed is not in a good place right
now. They're in a terrible place, right?
They really can't cut rates because of
the inflationary concerns. Stagflation
is the worst outcome generally for
markets because the economy weakens,
inflation stays high, and central banks
cannot come to the rescue. Rates go up,
curves flatten like they have. This is
not a good environment for risk assets.
We've had a big pop, like you've been
talking about, in equities. Credit
spreads have snapped tighter in the last
couple of days. I mean, I'm thinking,
"Hey, it's a better time to to sell on
these rallies than it is to buy on the
dips, at least at least for now."
>> So, Mike, sell what? Sell what
specifically?
You know, equities on the rally,
Jonathan. So, you know, I've been
waiting for stocks to go down another
10% and they they just rallied back and
and recovered a decent chunk of of their
losses. Credit spreads were just
starting to look a little juicy again,
right? They had widened, you know, 30
35%,
which is, you know, over the last, you
know, handful of years, a pretty good
metric to start legging in. And we've
been talking about legging in at these
wider levels. Then again, in the last 2
days, you know, because of the strong
technical position
you've been talking about new markets,
meaning yields are a lot higher, right?
I mean, the high yield market has
benefited from Treasury yields going up
and that extra spread you get from
widening. So, the all-in yields are
higher. That brings in international
buyers. It brings in
US insurance company and pension fund
buyers and and retail investors.
So, that's caused these spreads to come
back in. So, you know, you I think you
fade risk assets across the across the
board. What is a risk asset, Mike? And I
ask you this because some people are
talking about duration, interest rate
risk, particularly in 10 years and 30
years as increasingly a risk asset based
on this toxic mix for central bankers.
Do you agree or would you be buying
long-dated bonds?
You know, Lisa, this is the age-old
question about, you know, correlations
between stocks and bonds. Yeah, right
now, the correlation is not working for
investors, right? I look every day and
stock prices and bond prices are moving
in the same direction. Credit spreads,
which is, you know, you bond parlance
for risk assets, when the spreads widen,
that's akin to equities going down.
Credit spreads and bond yields are
moving together right now. That's bad
for bond investors cuz as a bond
investor, you own both, right? You own
the interest rate risk and you own the
credit risk. So, you don't want them
positively correlated. But,
those periods tend to be short-lived. We
looked at centuries of this
relationship, Lisa, right? And then on
average, there is no correlation between
risk assets or say stocks and bonds.
It turns positive during rising
inflationary periods, like it did right
after COVID. Remember 2022? It was like
the worst-case scenario
for asset allocators cuz stocks and
bonds both got clobbered. That was a
scary rising inflationary environment.
Right now, we're getting a little bit of
a whiff of that as well. But one thing
we do know, in the big downturns, if
this labor market continues to look
fragile and continues to weaken and you
do actually see demand destruction,
which I think is is still probably our
our base case here, more demand
destruction, you see the economy weaken,
you will see that correlation shift.
Right? You have a Fed that, you know, is
is changing leadership and you have a
president and a Treasury Secretary and
an incoming Fed chair who all want rates
to be a lot lower. And they will be
looking for excuses to cut rates and a
weak economy is a great one for them.
So, we're 7 minutes away from the
nonfarm payrolls report for the month of
March. Could this be the tipping point
where people understand this more as a
growth shock rather than something that
could fuel a prolonged bout of
inflation?
Yeah, I mean unless it's a gigantic, you
know, negative number Lisa, I'm I'm
taking this with a a grain of salt. I
think it's too early in this, you know,
war period to really glean a lot of
information from from today's monthly
jobs reports. I mean we got the JOLTS
number uh the other day and and that was
pretty telling, right? There's this
indicator jobs plentiful uh minus jobs
hard to get uh and that is pointing uh
really down meaning people are are not
able to get jobs um increasingly.
There's not a lot of jobs available.
Companies when they see this level of
uncertainty geopolitically, they pull
back on hiring. They pull back on
capital investment unless you're in the
defense or energy industries, right? And
that's one of the reasons, you know,
we'll we'll continue to see decent US uh
growth at least, but, you know, that's
that's typically a weaker environment.
Uh so I I think that, you know, kind of
the direction we're heading. Mike, what
time is the tea time?
Yeah, uh not today, Jonathan. Uh
unfortunately, you know, it's a it's a
it's a holiday, right? I mean I'm I'm my
mother's probably already upset that I'm
even working today, yeah.
>> Mine too, by the way. Mike, it's good to
see you. You're going to stick with us.
Michael Collins there of PGIM Fixed
Income. Mike's going to be with us into
this jobs report in just a moment. The
president is already posting out on
social media with this statement, "With
a little more time, we can easily open
the Strait of Hormuz, take the oil, and
make a fortune." What this signifies to
me is how much he's watching some of the
response that's coming from both
markets, from allies as well as from
people within the Republican Party.
Concerns about how the war is going and
uh trying to portray a better scenario,
a better outcome. What this market is
looking for is understanding how long
this goes on and how big a hit this is
going to be to growth potentially should
oil prices remain high.
>> such a confusing week, hasn't it? It's
been incredible.
>> Open the Strait of Hormuz. You open the
Strait. We don't need to open the
Strait. Open the Strait of Hormuz. Give
us more time. We'll open the Strait.
It's been back and forth all week.
>> If this continues, you're going to turn
on Bloomberg Surveillance and you're
going to get a roulette wheel with all
the different potential parameters and
we'll just spin it and we'll figure out
what the narrative of the day will be.
>> I'll be playing golf with Mike.
>> [laughter]
>> To be honest with you.
Well, yeah, probably. Coming up on the
program, we're getting the payrolls
report. Mike Collins is going to be back
with us. Stephanie Roth of Wolfe
Research joins us as well together
[music] with Mike McKee. And then later,
the NEC director we'll be catching up
with Kevin Hassett at 9:00 a.m. Eastern
time from New York City. Payrolls up
next.
The jobs report is just seconds away and
the price action into it looks like
this. Equity futures on the S&P slightly
negative. We're down by 1/10 of 1%. Down
by 0.2 on the Nasdaq. [music] In the
bond market, your two-year, 10-year, and
30-year yield look like this at the
moment. Treasury yields inching just a
little bit higher up by two basis points
on twos to 382. [music]
On 10s up by one to 436. With your jobs
report, let's cross over to Mike McKee
for more. Good morning, Mike. Good
morning, John. Looks like a pretty good
Friday for the labor market overall.
178,000 jobs were created during the
month of March. Of course, this is
before the war for the most part. The
unemployment rate drops to 4.3% from
4.4%.
Change in private payrolls 186,000.
And the change in manufacturing payrolls
a positive 15,000. We'd seen
uh other earlier indicators like ADP
suggesting manufacturing would lose
jobs. Average early hourly earnings up
2/10 of a percent on the month. For the
year-over-year rate takes it to 3 and
1/2% down from 3.8%.
That's not a bad fall. Uh Fed thinks
they're kind of in a sweet spot there.
Average weekly hours 34.2.
Labor force participation rate does drop
a little bit to 61.9 from 62% and the uh
U6 rate is at 8%. That goes up from 7.9.
But overall, again, 178,000 jobs created
and an unemployment rate of 4.3%.
So good news on the labor front. And it
does give the Fed the opportunity to
continue watching inflation. Mike McKee,
you give us the breakdown in just a
moment. The highest estimate on the
street into this print was 151. The
number 178. That's a major upside
surprise. Given how noisy these numbers
have been, we'll get into the noise in
just a moment. But for the moment, let's
take it on face value. A much better
than expected payrolls report this
morning. And this is the price action.
Equity futures off the back of it
interesting. On the S&P, on the Nasdaq,
and the Russell still slightly lower by
1/10 of 1% on both the S&P 500 and on
the Nasdaq. The move is in the bond
market. This is the more decisive move.
At the front end of the curve up by
seven basis points approaching 390 again
on twos. On 10s up by five to 435. And
we had two central questions this
morning, Lisa. One, how tight is this
labor market? And two, with that in
mind, what is the potential for
second-round inflationary re-effects
given the shock we've just seen in the
Middle East?
>> On the headline number, it seems like
this is a really strong market. The fact
that 170,000 jobs being created and the
unemployment rate inching down to 4.3%.
All very positive. A little bit less
positive when you look at the revisions
to last month, which you can see is
negative 133,000. That brings the
two-month payroll net revisions to a
negative 7,000. So this again goes to
the feeling that maybe this is a little
bit of evening out. The other thing is
when you start to look at some of the
details of what was added. Healthcare
workers more than 75,000 workers that
were added. If you look at employment
and financial activities, it edged lower
by 15,000. When you take a look at even
in manufacturing, construction has shown
little net change over the past 12
months. This really is a question of
where the jobs are being created.
Earnings haven't actually edged up as
much as people expected. These are some
of the aspects that people are looking
at to understand the heat.
>> So Mike, let's get into it. Let's talk
about the heat in the bounce back. We
were looking for a bounce back in
healthcare because the strike had
finished. The weather's improved.
Weather-sensitive areas looking for an
improvement there as well. Is it more
than just that, Mike? More than just a
one-off? It does appear to be a little
bit more than a one-off. And I think the
unemployment rate is what's going to
catch the Fed's attention because it's a
bigger drop than even anticipated. We go
from 4.441%
in February down to 4.256.
So more than a uh
but uh almost uh 100 basis points uh
lower on uh the the month. And then uh
you look at the labor force change.
396,000
fewer people into the labor force.
That's uh not a good news story
necessarily, but it does suggest that
maybe there is an immigration effect
finally starting to hit overall. Uh you
mentioned weather. Construction jobs
were up by 26,000. A little bit less
than people had anticipated, but it is a
rebound from the bad weather that we saw
in February. And manufacturing jobs as I
mentioned earlier, up 15,000.
Uh information services and financial
were the big losers. Uh financial uh
jobs down 15,000 on the month. Uh
Lisa mentioned the education and health
uh overall up 91,000. That's the
category that's provided the most jobs
overall. Leisure and hospitality 44,000.
And we do see a loss of jobs in
government of 8,000. 18,000 at the
federal level. There was a thought that
maybe that would level out. But it
hasn't yet so far. So uh keep an eye on
uh the various categories and how they
have changed. But I think the story of
the day is uh while we get a bigger
total number than anticipated a
significant amount, it's really the
unemployment rate in the big fall there
within the 4% range that is going to
catch the Fed's eye and the drop in the
labor force that is causing that. Mike
McKee, thank you, sir. Mike, stay close
and we'll come back to you a little bit
later. So if you're just joining us, a
blowout jobs report. The headline number
178. The median estimate was 65. The
unemployment rate lower than expected
coming in at 4.3%.
The wage number not as hot as expected.
We'll spend some time on that in just a
moment. This has been really noisy month
to month. So take the three-month
average. That goes from the mid to low
single digits to 68,000 over the last
three months. That's your three-month
rolling average for payrolls.
>> Which is significantly above what we're
talking about earlier this morning,
which could be a potential 33,000
break-even rate given the changing
composition of the uh population.
It's a real key question. How does the
Fed handle this? Because on one hand, it
points to a resilient economic backdrop,
a resilient labor market. On the other
hand, where is the wage growth that
potentially could allow what we're
seeing right now with the oil price
shock to be something that's more
inflationary than really a hit to
growth. That still does remain the key
question.
>> keep doing something that Mohamed
El-Erian is criticizing at the moment,
which is monetary policy is in a good
place. A good place to wait. And you'll
hear more of that. Financial conditions
have tightened. We're slightly above
their guess estimate of neutral. So they
believe on average we're slightly
restrictive. And they've got time to
wait. And a jobs report like that gives
them more time to wait to see what's
going to happen following the shock in
the Middle East. I like what Michael
Collins said. Actually, the Fed's in a
terrible position. This is the worst
position they could be in because
they're facing stagflationary risks
where they feel hamstrung to respond.
And that ultimately is just underscored
by a report that shows an economy that's
doing okay, but it's heading into an oil
price shock with unknown consequences.
And that again remains to be the answer,
which is the reason why you're not
seeing as big of a move as you would
expect based on how big of a beat this
headline number was.
>> 178 does not put the stag in
stagflation. That's for sure. Raises a
lot of questions about the momentum
we've got in this economy.
>> Yeah, and that's the reason why some
people are saying, "Are we
underestimating the inflationary
ramifications from this?" That still
remains to be a question. That said,
when you take a look at the composition
of jobs, it's a reason why some people
are getting comfort that it's more of a
growth risk shock than it is necessarily
an inflationary shock. Again, it doesn't
seem like as many people are asking for
raises as you seem to be suggesting,
Josh.
>> True, based on that number. Let's get
you an update and some reaction from
Stephanie Roth of Wolfe Research. Steph,
good morning. Good morning.
>> What's your reaction to that? That is a
stunning number. It is a stunning
number, and last month it was stunning
in the opposite direction. I think we
have to appreciate that there has been a
tremendous amount of volatility. Some of
it, of course, has to do with the
strikers coming back. But even when you
smooth through the data, we're probably
in a in an environment where the trend
in payrolls is somewhere between 50 and
70,000. The unemployment rate will
probably bounce around between 4.3 and
4.5. And it's an economy where the labor
market's largely stable. It's not
picking up significantly this month, and
after having significantly weakened last
month, it's probably just an environment
that's stable with a lot of volatility.
Is this a stable, tight labor market, or
a stable and loosening somewhat labor
market?
I would say it's probably stable and
slightly loosening. I don't think it's
tightening, but we're in an environment
where it's
fine. Over the summer, you might start
to see a little bit more loosening
because that's when you tend to get
people come into the labor market after
they finish school. And it's an
environment where it's very hard to
absorb new entrants, especially those
that are younger in nature and tend to
be competing with AI. Is the composition
of these jobs positive? Does it matter?
I mean, there is some broadening out, as
Mike was saying, in some of the jobs
that are being created. But really,
again, the focus on healthcare and
education really significant. Also,
we're not seeing the wage growth that
people had expected. It's 0.2% hour
average hourly earnings month over month
versus 0.3% expected. Does that indicate
that this won't be able to offer the
wage kind of increase to offset
consumers' ability to
to absorb the oil price shock? Yeah, I
mean, I think it tells you that it's in
a labor market that is not hot or
overheated. It's an environment where
you're not you're unlikely to get
inflation coming out of the labor
market, which is what tends to be
durable inflation. So, that that, you
know, allows the Fed to be a little bit
more easy than would otherwise be the
case given where the data is. And by the
way, when you're talking about the mix
of hiring, our expectation is you start
to see slightly more
gains coming from the cyclical parts of
the economy. Last year, that was held
back by trade uncertainty.
So, this year, you'll you'll probably
see more gains coming out of leisure and
hospitality and construction and
manufacturing. Do you think those gains
will happen even though there is now the
uncertainty of what to do with the oil
price shock? I mean, last year it was
the trade uncertainty. This year, it's
the uncertainty around shipping of
goods. Yeah, I mean, that's that's
certainly another sort of wrinkle in the
story. This doesn't seem to be Our base
case is this doesn't last beyond another
couple of weeks. If we're wrong there,
then yes, that could start to filter
into the labor market. But so far, it
seems like an environment where
in fact, if you looked at the ISM most
recently, the commentary was, "We're
concerned about the Iran shock, yet
business activity is okay." And that
seems to be the nature of the economy
right now, where there are concerns
about it, and it's a problem to some
extent, but spending seems to be steady.
The credit card data are all pretty
good. Commentary from airline CEOs is
quite positive. So, it doesn't seem like
it's really hurting the consumer yet. It
could eventually, but provided this only
lasts another couple of weeks, it
shouldn't do too much damage.
>> The data we've seen this week validates
this strength. It speaks to it. It
reinforces it. The ADP number was
strong. Jobless claims were low. Some
momentum in retail sales coming through
March and hopefully into April as well
and beyond. The numbers this week have
been pretty decent. Upside surprises,
and this one just continues that trend
to a greater degree. So, have analysts
been underestimating just how strong the
US economy was, stripping out the latest
increase in oil prices?
>> upside surprise. 178, the median
estimate in our survey was 65. Mike
Collins, how encouraged are you by a
stronger, much stronger than expected
jobs report?
You know, all these jobs numbers, John,
these monthly numbers are are kind of
you know, have to be taken taken lightly
or I kind of rounding error in terms of
the context of the total size of the
labor market. And I'm glad, Lisa, you've
pointed out, you know, I'm not that I
want to be viewed as looking for chinks
in the labor market armor, but you know,
as economists, and Stephanie, right, you
know this, we're we're trained to look
at the the hours worked, which is down,
times the the wages you make per hour,
which was a down downward surprise,
right? You multiply those together,
that's the amount of discretionary
income consumers, people have to buy
things. Those are down this month,
right? And on top of that, you know,
people are spending a lot more at the
pump than they were a month or two ago.
That also hits the discretionary. I was
looking at
flights the other day,
and I was actually surprised how cheap
they were and how many empty seats there
were on the plane. So, I think you're
starting to see this whiff of demand
destruction working its way through the
economy. But that being said, I mean,
the labor market by most measures looks
looks good. It looks solid. It's it's
weakening a little bit, but it's not
falling off a cliff. And again, I think
that puts the Fed in a in a tough
position. I mean, in my my instinct is
they they should probably cut rates a
lot over the next couple of years, and
they may not be able to, right? Again,
that's a that's a difficult position for
for any central bank.
>> it's worth noting at the moment, Mike. I
don't know about others, but you can't
pay me enough money to go to an airport
over the last few weeks. I think that
the TSA has got to be loving
>> And that's part of the that's part of
the situation, for sure. Mike, I want to
talk about this bond market move. It's
not a huge move, but yields are higher.
The front end by six basis points, on
10s towards the longer end up by four.
Given everything you've just said,
buddy, you're expecting those rate cuts,
tons of them, over the next 12 to 24
months. Are you a buyer here?
Yeah, I think this is a a good
opportunity in the bond market. I
mentioned earlier, I'm not necessarily a
buyer of equities and credit on these on
these, you know, sell-offs. I'm more of
a seller into these big rallies we've
had over the last couple days. But in
the bond market, I think bonds are
cheap, right? Equities, you could argue
they're a little cheaper than they were.
They're they're less rich than they
were,
you know, a month or two ago. But bonds,
I think in general,
at least at least government
high-quality government bonds around the
world, and it's not just in the US,
where we've been actually legging into
the duration trade and adding, you know,
interest rate risk. I think it's I think
it's a long-term strategic buy, for
sure.
Mike Collins, appreciate your time,
Steph. Thanks for making time for us
this morning. Mike Collins there of
PIMCO fixed income on a jobs report that
comes in much stronger than expected,
delivering high yields across the curve,
and Mike Collins is looking the other
way and looking to buy that back up in
yields. Yeah, he's multiplying the hours
worked, which actually went down on
average for each employee, times how
much their wages are going up, and that
is your discretionary income bucket, and
it is going down. That said, you know,
the point that you were making earlier,
the fact that we've seen upside surprise
after upside surprise, a lot of people
have underestimated the US economy. So,
at what point do you take a look and say
a good number's a good number? I mean,
how do you sort of parse what is
otherwise a very confusing backdrop? You
noted the surprise index earlier this
week, the Citi surprise index. Where are
we now? Super high. We're at the highest
level since late 2023. I mean, this is
just giving you a sense of how negative
people have been relative to the actual
data that's been coming in. And people
can say, "But but but," and point to all
of the reasons why it isn't that great.
Nonetheless, you put it together, it
looks like an economy that's pretty
strong.
>> Stephanie, final word, final conclusion
on this jobs report. Put it all together
because there are pockets where you can
say this isn't great, hours worked,
wages. Other pockets where you can say
this is fantastic, headline payrolls,
unemployment. The result is probably
somewhere in between. And and last
month, we had significant decline in
jobs, and this month it was a big gain.
We continue to get swung around by
volatility in the data. And I think the
important thing is to take a a big step
back and look at the trend that we've
seen in in the last couple of months,
and it's a labor market that's fine.
It's steady. Certainly better than where
we were last year,
but it's not one that's overheating. So,
it's one where the the Fed can wait and
see how the inflation backdrop
continues over the summer. Ultimately, I
think they'll be able to be cutting
later this year because what you'll
probably see is the unemployment rate
rise steadily throughout the summer
as you have some of those seasonal
effects and younger people entering the
labor force, harder for them to find a
job. But right now, it's a it's a
wait-and-see backdrop with a labor
market that is doing just fine.
Stephanie, good to see you. Stephanie
Roth there of Wolfe Research. Looking at
178, you just get the sense that a lot
of people watching the program right
now, because of the revisions we've seen
over the last 12, 18, 24 months, they're
mightily adjusting that number just down
a touch from the 178 we've just seen.
Okay, to be fair, what do you do with
this? Last month, we got negative
92,000. Wow, that must be revised
upward, right? No, it was revised
downward to negative 133,000.
Okay, but people were expecting 65,000,
and it was 178,000. These numbers are
sort of all over the place and don't
give people real conviction that they
have a sense of the path of travel.
>> to sound like a a member of the FOMC, so
forgive me. Forgive me. I'm going to
actually tape this and play it back to
you, but carry on.
>> The totality of the data.
>> Ooh, look at this. Last month,
that number was not reinforced by the
data we were seeing elsewhere. In fact,
quite the opposite with that data. And
last month, when we saw that big
negative number, we talked about the
weakness in healthcare because of the
strikes. We talked about the weather
impact in this as well. So, I think you
can park last month. And even if you
want to park this month and push it to
one side, the data elsewhere has
continued to be decent. The ISM has
continued to be strong. So, if you look
at the totality of the data right now,
and this isn't a judgment on where the
data's going to be one month, two month,
three months out, because I don't know
based on the shock in the Middle East.
It's about the momentum we've got in
this economy right now. Based on the
totality of the data, it looks like this
economy's doing okay. When you look at
the averages, and I'm glad that you
pointed to the idea of the three-month
average change in nonfarm payrolls being
68,000, that is still viewed as greater
than the break-even rate needed to keep
this economy on keel. So, that is a
positive figure. Let's get you an update
on that and on news worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Yohara has more. Hi, Yohara. Hi, John.
Just recapping that strong jobs report.
Nonfarm payrolls coming in
>> [music]
>> well above estimates for March with
178,000
jobs added in the month versus estimates
of 65,000. The unemployment [music] rate
ticking down to 4.3% a tenth of a
percent lower than expectations.
President Trump [music] is proposing a
one and a half trillion dollar defense
budget paired with a 10% cut to domestic
[music] spending. The plan is tied to
the war in Iran and sets up a sharp
political fight in Congress with
Republicans [music] split on deep cuts
but likely backing those defense hikes.
And astronauts are now on a precise
[music] path to the moon after NASA's
Orion capsule fired its main engine in
space. The Artemis 2 crew is set to fly
by the lunar surface in the coming days
and could set a record for the farthest
humans have [music] ever traveled.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John.
Yohara, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on the program, [music]
we'll catch up with Aditi Bhave of Bank
of America breaking down the latest jobs
data and that jobs data a stunning
upside surprise. [music] That
conversation up next.
>> [music]
>> It's an economy where the labor market's
largely stable. If not
picking up significantly this month,
it's probably stable and [music]
slightly loosening. I don't think it's
tightening, but we're in an environment
where it's
fine. Over the summer, you might start
to see a little bit more loosening.
It's a fantastic jobs report. That was
Stephanie Roth of Wolfe Research. Much,
much better than expected. 178 [music]
the estimate 65. Equity futures down by
third of 1%. Stocks are down and yields
are higher. Can't get a break from
[music] this, can we? 5-year yields up
by five basis points call it four on 10s
up five on twos. With us around the
table, Aditi Bhave of Bank of America.
Aditi, good morning. Good morning. Just
frame this jobs report for us because
we're seeing a lot of volatility month
to month. What's the trend and look at
the totality of the data how much
momentum does this economy have? So, let
me give you three numbers that I think
really stand out today. The first one is
4.256%.
That was the unrounded unemployment
rate. So, we didn't just print a 4.3. We
almost rounded down to 4.2.
This was a big improvement even if it's
because of lower participation. That's
that's like the key number that the Fed
focuses on, right? Second, 35 months.
So, typically in a business cycle, once
the unemployment rate bottoms out, you
go into a recession at most 14 months
later typically within a month. This has
been true every prior business cycle.
This time around, it's been almost three
years 35 months since the unemployment
rate bottomed out. It's up 80 basis
points. That's it. So, as much as I
don't like saying this time is
different, it really feels like this
time is a little bit different. And then
the third number that I would like to
give you is 79,000 which I believe is
the average for private payroll growth
in the last three months.
Let's not think about February as
payback. Let's not think about March as
payback for February. Feb was actually
payback for Jan. Right? January now got
revised up. It's 160,000 nonfarm
payrolls. And so, the minus 133 in Feb
pays you back for that. Your three-month
average is still very, very strong. A
lot of the data is very strong. The one
pushback that actually really does
resonate is that the average hourly
earnings have not been increasing as
much as people expected and you aren't
seeing hourly the hours worked
increasing. They're actually decreasing.
At what point is that a sticking point
not just to the overall bull case but to
the fact that the K is widening that
much more with the oil shock? That's
fair. That's a point of concern. So, if
you look at aggregate growth in income
in March, it was probably close to zero.
The thing about that though is that the
Fed has been very consistent. You you
think about aggregate income growth as a
proxy for consumer spending, right?
Future consumer spending. The Fed has
been very consistent about the idea that
they have a labor mandate. They don't
have a GDP mandate. That's what they
said when they were hiking in 2022 with
what was in real time a technical
recession. That's what they said last
year when they were cutting
because the labor market was soft but
GDP was strong. So, they're going to
focus on labor not the consumers is my
point.
>> think then that this is going to
decrease GDP even though the the economy
is doing okay even though the labor
market seems to be holding up? This
could be a headwind to consumer
spending. Again, it's one month's worth
of data. Wages typically lag a little
bit. So, maybe wages will pick up in
coming months, but
fourth quarter GDP came in less than
expected. Potential for downward
revisions. The first quarter is also
looking somewhat soft. I think a lot of
that is weather disruptions. They'll get
paid back, but it's hard to deny that
activity has been a bit softer than
expected in the last few months. That
said, the acceleration in labor is
somewhat striking as well in the last
couple months.
>> Number one question, is this labor
market strong enough to support higher
prices in this economy?
That is absolutely the key question. I
think it's going to support slightly
higher prices. The question is how much
higher. I don't think we're going to see
an inflation spike like in 2022
precisely for the reason that you said.
I mean, basically the way I think about
2022 is you had huge supply disruptions,
but you also needed demand
to be strong enough to essentially hit
that vertical part of the supply curve.
I don't think we're going to be there
right now,
but we'll have to see. We're also going
to have to see how big the supply
disruptions are not only in energy but
also much more importantly how much
passes through to the core. And how long
it lasts. Aditi, I was going to say a
thanks for making time for us. Aditi
Bhave there of Bank of America on a
much, much stronger jobs report than
expected.
>> I love how he said, "Look, it's good.
You look at it, it's good." People are
talking about January being payback for
December and this isn't just payback.
It's that much more. A lot of people
coming to a similar conclusion.
>> We certainly want to see more of that.
In just a moment, we'll have a
conversation with the [music] NEC
director Kevin Hassett, Peter Chia of
Academy Securities, Torsten Slok of
Apollo and the former New York Fed
president Bill [music] Dudley. Reaction
from the White House first up next right
here on Bloomberg TV.
The market has been pretty resilient.
This has been extremely volatile and I
think [music] investors don't really
know what they're supposed to make of
all of this. In a six-month window, I
can see a lot of [music] volatility.
>> Now we get whipsawed because the
positioning gets really light and
momentum unwinds.
>> The year ends up in a much stronger spot
than we are right now.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your price action looks like this.
Equity [music] futures declining by just
a third of 1% on the S&P on the Nasdaq
down by 0.4. In the bond market, yields
[music] higher by five basis points at
the front end of the curve. Twos up to
3.85, 10s up by four to 4.34. Following
this, a blowout jobs report. The
headline number 178,000.
The estimate in our survey, the media,
65. Unemployment down to 4.3 from 4.4
and almost a 4.2 handle.
>> Yeah, which is a reason why we were just
talking to Aditi Bhave of Bank of
America. He said [music] this is a great
number and he dismissed some of the
questions around the wages not
increasing as much as people [music]
expected and saying, "Look, you could
ultimately get a labor market that holds
in a US economy that is resilient
without necessarily a significant
[music]
inflationary pop even from higher oil
prices."
>> One word for me, momentum. The momentum
of the last week [music]
in the US economy. Retail sales better
than expected. ADP better than expected.
Jobless claims lower than expected. The
payrolls report much, much better than
expected. That's momentum [music] that's
difficult to argue with going into a big
shock in the Middle East.
>> And it explains why you are seeing
companies engage in mergers and
acquisitions, [music]
deal offerings. The reason why we're
talking about big IPOs coming later this
year and you talk to people in the
banking sector, [music] they're all
fires and all guns a blazing. Let's go.
A lot of the companies and corporate
executives see that momentum [music]
continuing even if dampened on the
margins from higher oil prices.
>> Big hour we're coming up this hour. In
just a moment, we'll catch up with the
NEC director Kevin [music] Hassett
reacting to the latest jobs data,
Torsten Slok of Apollo expecting a Nike
swoosh recovery for the economy and the
former New York Fed president Bill
Dudley joining us later in the hour on
the path ahead for interest rates. We
begin this hour following a much, much
stronger than expected jobs report and
I'm happy to say that joining us here on
Bloomberg TV is the National Economic
Council director Kevin Hassett live from
the White House. Director Hassett,
welcome back to the program, sir and
happy Easter to you and your family for
the long weekend. A blowout jobs number,
how much momentum is in this economy?
Yeah, you mentioned the word momentum
and that was exactly when we were
talking about today's number last night
last night with the president. Momentum
was really the key theme of the briefing
that Pierre, the CEA chair, and I
discussed with the president. The fact
is that there's so much momentum because
of all the positive policies, the
deregulation, the low tax rates. And
then you're seeing all the positive
stories about no tax on tips and no tax
on overtime. I, by the way, was at a
restaurant yesterday and asked all the
waiters how much money they made on the
no tax on tips and the range was from
$3,000 to $10,000 and they were all so
happy. So, that's like a positive
momentum creating thing that I think if
you have your eye on the horizon as
America's corporations do, absolutely
explains why job markets are booming.
And so, I think that if you keep your
eye on the horizon, if you understand
the long-run growth, the golden age is
coming because of our policies, then
this jobs number makes complete sense.
The final thing I want to say is I want
to tip my cap to my former colleague in
the Trump White House
in the first term, Anna Wong, who's now
the chief economist for you guys. You
know, I always read everything she
writes, but at the beginning of the week
she said almost exactly this is what's
going to happen, and she was the only
person in the universe that did it. I
commend her because she's got a great
model, and she got the number almost
exactly right. And finally, in her
report she said, "If you really want to
wonder about momentum, you can also look
at the 3-month moving average." Because
we had like that that big blip down in
the previous month, and she said with
her really optimistic outlook it was
going to go up to 61,000
average per month, and it's actually
closer to 68,000 now. And so, it really
is a very, very positive day for
markets.
>> 68 on the money, the 3-month average.
And I was looking for 150 headline
today, we got 178. Brahma, do you think
that Kevin might be popular in
restaurants at the moment? I think it
very [laughter] much so. I think that
he's trying to exploit that. Trying to
get some free onion rings. Kevin, no
doubt we've got momentum and lots of
reasons for it. We've got the tax
refunds starting to come through. The
Fed had cut rates at the back end of
last year. Some of the biggest companies
on the planet are spending a lot of
money. Those CapEx intentions are huge
for the year ahead. How insulated do you
think the US economy is given the shock
in the Middle East? And the reality that
energy prices now are a lot higher than
they were a few months ago.
Well, well, one thing is that that the
US is really the engine that drives the
global economy again. And we kind of
lost that status, I think, under the
previous administration. And so, I know
that there are starting to be some
supply disruptions in the East and so
on, but the US is standing ready to
export more to these countries, more
refined product, more crude. And also,
we've taken a number of steps to
minimize the disruptions here in the US,
doing things like waiving the Jones Act
so that we could get US gas and finished
product over to the West Coast. And And
so, I think that that in the end the
strength of the US economy is going to
be something that's kind of like a
safety net for Asia as they're dealing
with the fact that they have to import
all their oil. And so, shocks, they're
more sensitive to shocks. They're
experiencing real shortages. We're
seeing fuel rationing in places like
Indonesia. Certain governments introduce
4-day weeks. No doubt we have abundant
supply across much of this nation with
the exception of a couple of places, but
we're still price takers in America. And
Kevin, I wonder from your perspective,
given the momentum we have and given the
higher prices in energy, just what is
the prospect for broader price pressure
picking up from here for the year ahead?
Well, well, what I would urge you guys
to do, and you have the technical
capability to do it, is something that I
look at every day, is look at what the
futures markets think. And also, if you
look at the options markets, you can
construct a sort of 95% confidence
interval
of what's possible with energy prices.
And if you look at that, then it pretty
much futures markets agree with
President Trump that this is going to be
a temporary disruption, and then the
strength of the US economy is going to
basically be a bulwark for the global
economy. And so, I I would suggest I
keep a close eye on the futures markets.
You know,
forecasting these things is very
difficult, but the futures markets have,
you know, basically prices going back
towards normal over the summer, but
there is a pretty wide 95% confidence
interval.
There is a question though, Kevin, how
much you can really model out right now
given how quickly moving things are on
the ground. And a lot of people who we
speak to expect oil prices to remain
higher for longer. We're looking right
now at diesel prices at 5 and 1/2 $5.53.
We're looking at average gasoline prices
at above $4. Can you still see 4% GDP
growth this year if oil prices remain at
these levels?
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
I I don't think as you saw with today's
jobs report that we should expect that
people are going to have to revise their
annual forecast very much. And I think
that the main reason for the US, and and
the main reason is that we're a much
different economy than we were in the
1970s when we were so energy dependent.
I do think that there, you know, will be
some negative repercussions that will be
very short-lived in the Asian economies,
and we expect that disruption to be over
really, really soon. It's something the
president has emphasized over and over,
and emphasized again with me last night.
How much are you modeling though what
happens if this goes on through June,
through July, through August? I mean,
how much do you have contingency plans
for what type of levers you could pull
to help support an economy that has
enough momentum in it heading into this
at a time when people already are
cutting back around the margins. You can
see this in certain discretionary
spending types of surveys that are
coming out in real time.
You know, our our job is to uh
prepare for every scenario,
but to be realistic about what we
expect. And what we expect with a high
confidence is that what you're seeing in
today's jobs market will continue, and
that this situation in the Middle East
will be over very shortly as the
president has said over and over, and
then people can put their eyes back on
the horizon and see that we're creating
a golden age. But of course, you know,
we're very careful to think about what
could be disrupted and what we could do
to to do something about it. And as an
example, we found that some Asian
economies were holding back jet fuel
shipments to some of our airports on the
West Coast, and so we waived the Jones
Act to make sure that we could get some
Gulf oil to the West Coast so that their
airports could continue to run. There
are little things like that all around
the world that happen every day, and
we've got people who are watching every
single one of them to minimize the
disruption. How much are you pushing
Kevin also to remove certain taxes on
gasoline, on diesel in order to also
make it more affordable in the near
future?
Well, I I think that that right now the
the focus is on,
you know, finishing the job.
And our strong belief is that if we do
that, then we're going to get things
back to normal very, very quickly. And
don't forget we're talking about the
cost of what we're doing. The benefit is
that we're, you know, hopefully ending
the time when this really
murderous country can cause turmoil
throughout the Middle East. And if you
think about that, then, you know, I'm
sure that that some of your Wall Street
friends could could give you some
estimates today, but what's the higher
risk premium that's capitalized in the
markets all around the world because of
Iranian terrorism? How much more
investment will there be in the Middle
East if people aren't worried that the
Iranians are going to be throwing
rockets at them all the time? These are
all long-run big positive effects, and
if
this ends shortly, then I think that
you're going to see a recovery even in
the places that are are currently most
heavily burdened by this because they're
the ones who have been really suffering
so much under
the oppression of this country. Kevin,
can we finish on the war? And I don't
expect you to talk about strategy and
timelines. We've talked about that
before. You wouldn't want to compromise
the safety of our troops in the region
at the moment. I'd like to finish on
objectives and reopening the Strait of
Hormuz because some of the communication
through the week has been slightly
contradictory in the minds of some. That
on the one hand the president has said,
"Open up the Strait or else." And on
other days the president has says, "It's
up to other people to open up the Strait
because they're more dependent on it."
Where are we on that front at the
moment? Is it the objective of the
administration to reopen the Strait of
Hormuz?
I'm going to continue to let the
president speak on that matter.
I think that we are moving full speed
ahead with our plans, and we believe
that as we do that, things will return
back to normal relatively quickly. But
as far as talking about, you know,
short-term policy, I'll let the
president speak for himself. Kevin,
appreciate your time and your thoughts.
Have a wonderful weekend, sir. Thanks
for making time for us, we appreciate
it. Thank you. Kevin Hassett there, the
National Economic Council director,
following a much, much better than
expected jobs report for this country.
Yeah, still seeing the US economy on
track for that 4% GDP. The assumption
being that the conflict will end in the
next two to three weeks. What that means
everyone is parsing over to understand
the longer term
ramifications both for commodity prices
and for the persistence in some of the
supply shocks that have become very
physical and very real in a lot of
places.
>> word you're going to hear a lot,
momentum. And the momentum we've got in
this year US economy and the tailwinds
behind us coming into '26. No doubt
Torsten's going to talk about it in just
a moment when we catch up with him.
There is a lot of momentum. It's the
question about price pressure that
interests me. That if you believe there
is lots of momentum in the economy right
now, how vulnerable are we to
broad-based price pressure? Now, in
Director Hassett's mind, he's looking at
the oil futures curve, and it does
suggest a steep sell-off in crude prices
through the next 12 months or so. Let's
hope the market is right, and that we do
get that decline, and once we get
through this shock, things get back to
normal. But certainly at the moment,
given the potential for higher prices
from here, that momentum supports that
idea. And if there is enough momentum,
and if this does
continue to be a more prolonged oil
price shock, at what point are we also
talking about a persistence in
inflation? I was looking at the
Cleveland Nowcasting inflation
Nowcasting, and we're looking at
inflation the first quarter core PCE at
3.63%. That is moving in the wrong
direction. Even in the second quarter at
about 3%. So, we're still talking about
an elevated rate, which leaves the Fed
in a very difficult spot.
>> Just an update on the price action for
you. Equity futures trading closes in a
few minutes' time. When the session
closed, we're down about a third of 1%.
Not too much drama there. In the bond
market, we'll get about three more hours
of trading. We'll trade until noon in
fixed income for Treasuries. Yields at
the moment higher by four basis points.
Two's at 3.84, 10's at 4.33. We'll have
an update on our news worldwide with
that jobs report and more. Yahaira joins
us now. Hey, Yahaira. Exactly, John.
Recapping the jobs report, nonfarm
payrolls showing a strong upside
surprise in March with 178,000
jobs added, well above estimates of
65,000. [music]
The unemployment rate ticked down to
4.3% a tenth of a percent lower than
expectations.
Iran is escalating attacks across Gulf
energy sites hitting facilities in
Kuwait [music] and the UAE while Saudi
Arabia intercepts drones. No casualties
were reported, but fires did disrupt
operations. President [music] Trump
threatening more strikes if Tehran
refuses peace talks.
And more details on one of those
attacks, Abu Dhabi is suspending
operations at its biggest natural gas
processing facility after a fire. It's
the second time operations at the
project have been halted since the war
in Iran started. [music]
The site is central to UAE gas supply
and oil exports. That's Bloomberg Brief,
John. Yohai, thank you. More from Yohai
later this hour. Up next, we'll catch up
with Peter Chair of Academy Securities
saying the March jobs report was more
strange than wrong. We'll get his
thoughts on a blow out number in just a
moment. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
There's so much
>> momentum because of all the positive
policies, the deregulation, the uh low
tax rates. And that you're seeing all
the positive stories [music] about no
tax on tips and no tax on overtime
absolutely explains why job markets are
booming. Difficult to argue that
following the jobs report we just saw.
That was the National Economic Council
director Kevin Hassett with reaction
from the White House first right here on
Bloomberg TV. [music] The number looks
like this. 178 came in at 8:30 Eastern
time about 46, 47 minutes ago. The
estimate was 65,000. The unemployment
rate coming in at 4.3 and almost coming
in at 4.2,
>> [music]
>> down from 4.4.
>> Yeah, when you take a look at the
three-month average change in nonfarm
payrolls, this is what people are
looking at. It was 68,000. When you take
a look at change [music] in private
payrolls, that has also been increasing.
I believe at 70 a significant pace. So,
you look at all of this, you start
saying, "Okay, how strong is this labor
market? Is it going to lead to wage
growth? Is it going to lead to
inflation? Or is it just going to
sustain an economy at a [music] solid
footing amidst what could be a prolonged
oil price shock?"
>> The stock market firmly focused
elsewhere. We just finished up stock
trading this morning on equity futures,
negative by about 0.3%. So, no bounce
here. I think we bounced for about two
seconds following that jobs report. The
Nasdaq down by third of 1%. Still
[music] trading as the bond market,
yields higher by four or five basis
points through the curve. On twos, tens
up by three or four basis points to
4.34. Yeah, and expectation here that
this allows the Fed [music] to keep
feeling like they are in a good place,
at least in a good enough place not to
have to do anything. Question on the
longer term whether this means that
potentially this is an economy that
could hang in there. Part of the
confusion, the difficulty to trade this
market, and why some people have called
it untradeable is there's so many
questions about the longer term horizon
based on what [music] victory in the
Middle East looks like amid a conflict
that is causing physical shortages in
large parts of the world when it comes
to things like oil, wind, gas, [music]
and diesel, and even questions around
some of the other commodities like
helium that go into semiconductors.
>> Lots of reaction through the next 40
[music] minutes. We'll catch up with
Torsten Slok for Apollo. The former New
York Fed president Bill Dudley joining
us in just a moment. Here's a take from
Peter Chair of Academy Securities
writing in the job report was more
strange than strong. Joining us now is
Peter Chair. Pete, welcome to the
program, sir. Why more strange than
strong?
Well, one, if you go back to the JOLTS
data, which I like to look at, you had
the hiring rate was actually the lowest
it's been since COVID. It kind of
reached the post-COVID lows. Um and you
also had the quits rate very, very low.
And quits rate to me is kind of a
crowd-sourced bit of data. You had
really big revisions to prior months.
You've had government shutdowns. So, I
think as Lisa said, the three-month is
68,000. That makes some sense. I think
I'm not going to get too excited that we
had this super great jobs number, and
I'm not going to get too worried that
the prior month was super horrible. I
think we're having a lot of data
calculation and collection issues, and
it's coming through in the numbers when
they're printed. Pete, away from the
payrolls report though, momentum is
where this come up repeatedly. You heard
it from the White House just moments
ago. ADP was strong, I said was strong,
jobless claims were strong, retail sales
was better than expected. It's hard to
argue that this economy doesn't have
momentum. Can you make that argument?
Yeah, I think there is some positive
momentum. Again, a lot of this though,
right, prices have gone up,
affordability is high. So, how much of
this is people being forced to spend
more for the same basket of goods they
were buying? Yeah, I think it's very
hard to measure anything right now. It's
been very volatile. The conflict in Iran
has kind of put a, you know, damper on
how do you measure things properly? What
is permanent? What's temporary? What can
people live through? What jobs are being
created by this? What jobs are at risk?
So, I I I think we're still in this
really wait and see to see how this
conflict plays out, which as Hassett
Kevin Hassett said, could be very
strong. I think our best case is we
proceed and finish this to the end where
the Iranian regime really changes and
resembles something that fits into the
global economy much better. Given that,
and I don't want to oversimplify it, but
how do you put all the pieces together
of a puzzle to answer the key question,
which is could this shock be a greater
hit to growth expectations or greater
boost to inflation longer term?
Ooh. So, I'm looking at trying to parse
this into parts of the world and areas
that I think will do well kind of
whether this we get a quick resolution
or a longer term resolution. I think
you're going to see Europe actually
spend a lot more on infrastructure,
energy infrastructure, and building out
their economy again, right? They kind of
seated all manufacturing. So, I look to
that as an area. I think we're going to
see a lot of activity with the US
helping in Central and South America,
right? It's just a natural place. Yes,
we if we have a successful completion of
the war, the Middle East will do well,
but again, I think our focus is going to
be really much Central and South
America. So, I'm looking at investing
there, and I still want to get back to,
you know, the rare earths, the critical
minerals, the process refining, the
smelting required to remain independent.
You're kind of going on a theme almost
of calling it vertically integrated
nations. So, every nation doing a little
bit more of their own, and that's the
kind of Those are the investments I want
to make right now. Given the fact that a
lot of people are investing in the
physical world, how much money's getting
sucked away from the government bond
space in terms of the buyer pace
for some of the debt that's going to be
incurred to pay for some of this, right?
I just wonder if your faith in the
physical world and the resiliency and
some of the themes that a lot of
companies and countries have been
harping on, how much that comes at the
expense of money flowing into financial
assets like bonds that have typically
been a buffer against any kind of
volatility and economic growth?
Yeah, I think you're going to see a
steady kind of headwinds against bonds
rallying too much. And it's going to be
countries being forced to sell their
bond holdings to, you know, raise money
to, you know, buy oil, to buy the
defense stocks, and then the issuance of
more debt. So, I think there's a
stubborn headwind
facing treasury yields, and that's not
just here, it's globally, right? It's a
global market. And again, as each
country kind of focuses on their own
issues, their own needs, I think you're
going to see less demand for US
treasuries partly because every country
probably has to spend a little bit more
than they were planning on right now.
Pete, I often listen to your podcast
now. It's fantastic, by the way. I've
been tracking that now. Was listening to
that last week. Can't guarantee you'll
get bought by OpenAI
unlike some, but it's fantastic. Pete,
going through that podcast, you lean on
a lot of military experience, and that
sets up the conversation for you and the
team to talk about markets. Can we set
aside the communication from government
sources over the last week because some
of it's been very confusing. When your
military personnel, your veterans in the
team focused on military posture
and what's happening and developing
there, the troops, the assets moving
into the region, where do they think
this is headed?
So, that's a great question. One bunch
of our military people said, "You always
want to pay very close attention at the
press briefings to what the military
say. They are objective. They are trying
to give what they can assess without
giving away information."
The flip side is both the president and
the secretary of war, they are political
figures. So, they have to put a
political spin on it. So, I'm going to
try and stick to what we see as the
military. We are building up so that we
have the ability to do more. Now, some
people say we have to use it once we put
there there. No, this actually just
having it there applies additional
leverage on Iran, right? It's hard to
say, "Oh, we might do something with
troops" if the troops aren't there. So,
some of this is going to be posturing to
push. I think when we talk to our
military experts, the view is that the
single best thing the US can do is
proceed all the way to the finish, and
we have to get rid of the, you know,
Iran's ability to do anything on the
nuclear side, right? The assessment is
if there's any country in the world that
would take nuclear weapons if they had
them and use them, it is Iran. So, I
think what we would like to see is going
forward and finishing this job, getting
to the point that you truly have a
regime that looks very, very different
in Iran, is willing to work with the
rest of the world, and we can all
breathe a sigh of relief. Whether we get
there or not is a question. I think that
is a matter of the president selling the
war better than he has even to this day
to the American people, and allowing the
military to complete its job, which is
going to take time, and two to three
weeks may even be short on that. But
that would be the single best outcome.
Pete, I've got 30 seconds left. The
French president does not think we can
reopen the Strait of Hormuz through
military means. Does your team disagree?
I I think we would disagree, though one,
we are very careful in talking about
this. It is the ability for commercial
ships to transit the strait, or the
better yet, the willingness of
commercial ships to transit the strait.
So, we have to create a condition where
captains and crews on these ships say,
"You know what? I feel comfortable, I
feel safe enough to go through." That
will take a period of time. It will take
shows of force, shows of display. It
probably requires some sort of, you
know, cooperation. It is interesting
yesterday that Oman was on record trying
to do something. Technically, Oman
controls many of those waters in theory.
So, I I think there is this possibility
and we need to see a coalition kind of
build to get that. Again, I'm not sure
we can get this in a 2 to 3-week
timeframe, but I think we would all like
to see this proceed to a proper
conclusion. And the flip side is the
worst case is we walk away and leave
this in disarray. That would be, I
think, horrible for markets, even if we
popped on day one because of that. This
really should be seen to completion.
Pete, thank you, sir. Pete Chiaverini of
Academy Securities, a company absolutely
filled with military experience.
>> And you can hear that from the podcast
where they line up all of their generals
and admirals and talk about the actual
what's going on on the ground.
>> Real hard line experience there.
>> Exactly.
>> What's happening on the front lines.
Let's get an update on what's happening
next with Torsten Slok of Apollo looking
for a Nike swoosh recovery in this
economy.
The US is really the engine that drives
[music] the global economy again. Did
what we expect with a high confidence is
that what you're seeing in today's jobs
market will continue and that this
>> [music]
>> situation in the Middle East will be
over very shortly and then people can
put their eyes back on the horizon and
see that we're creating a golden age.
That was the National Economic Council
Director Kevin Hassett sounded quite
happy given the jobs number we just saw
in [music] this country, a blowout
payrolls figure. The equity futures
trading has finished, it's wrapped up
and equity futures looked like [music]
this at the close. We're down by 0.3% on
the S&P, on the Nasdaq down by 0.3%
[music]
also on the Russell small caps
underperforming here by 0.5. Given this
development in the bond market, which is
high yields, up by five [music] basis
points on twos to 3.85, 10s at 4.35,
yields inching higher off the back of a
much, much stronger than expected
[music] jobs report.
>> We've been asking all morning at what
point is the momentum in the US economy
lead inflation to be higher for [music]
longer? Still to this day, given the
move that we're seeing in bond markets,
yes, you are seeing yields a little bit
higher, but it isn't a massive move
[music] based at 178,000 jobs getting
created and the unemployment rate
falling almost is at 4.2% but to a 4.3%
rounded up. This indicates that people
still don't believe this is going to be
an inflationary shock even with the
momentum in the labor market.
>> negative [music] supply shock in this
economy, in this labor market, 3-month
average of 68K,
pretty solid. That's a pretty strong
number. Yeah, and there's no way you can
really slice this and say it was a bad
number. So, even if people are looking
at this and saying it's a Rorschach
test, you could take a look at hours
worked, you could take a look at wages
not rising as much as people expected.
It's a good number. It's a good number
pretty much anyway you slice it.
>> Mike McKee has been slicing it up. He
joins us now for more. Good morning,
Mike. What do you see? Well, I don't
have to take the other side from Lisa
just to be obnoxious this morning. Uh I
was thinking about the people who write
in to us regularly after these reports,
especially the category of folks who
say, "The Fed's got to cut. The Fed's
got to cut." Um there are reasons why
they could hang a little bit on the data
in here. Now, we did have an almost 2/10
drop in the unemployment rate. That was
quite remarkable and that's the kind of
thing that the Fed is looking at. But
what caused that was a big drop in the
civilian labor force, 396,000.
Labor force is now lower than at any
point since July since December of 2024.
So, we've lost a lot of workers. Maybe
that's the president's immigration
policies.
But we also saw unemployment drop by
332,000.
That's not the kind of thing that we had
been seeing up to this point in the job
creation numbers. And I'm when I'm
saying 332,000, that's the household
survey. The household survey also showed
a drop in employment of 64,000. So,
there are people who think the household
survey is better and they hang their
arguments on that. That might be what
they're looking at. And you could also
look at the calendar and say these
reports are based on the pay period that
includes the 12th of the month and that
was pretty early in March this year. So,
the war had just gotten underway. And
then the finally the question you
mentioned about inflation, Lisa,
I looked that week ended the week of the
12th ended with gasoline prices at
$3.67.
Now we're at $4.09. So, maybe people's
views are changing a little bit.
>> Mike McKee, good try. Mike McKee, thank
you, sir. Breaking down the jobs report.
Are you converted? Look, I can point to
a lot of holes in this. I'm not accused
of being overly optimistic. Please don't
No No one No one worry about that. I
don't think I don't think anyone's
saying, "God, Rosie misses. Why are you
just always trying to paint things
wonderfully?" I'm just saying this is a
good number and I think that pretty much
when you take a look at the average,
it's solid. The headline is what it is.
Torsten Slok of Apollo says the
following, "We expect to see a Nike
swoosh recovery for the economy over the
coming quarters." Torsten joins us now.
Torsten, good morning. Morning.
>> Before we get to that, your reaction to
that jobs report at 8:30. Well, it is
absolutely correct, of course. Looking
at it from only the last month of what
we're having in February and March, it
does look more volatile, but exactly the
3-month average at 68,000, that's a
pretty strong number, in particular when
the Fed just yesterday published a
research note saying that the new
break-even number is 10,000. The timing
of that note and that number on its own,
it tells you that 68 is a blowout number
over the last several months. So, the
momentum in the economy is really quite
strong at the moment.
>> The tailwinds are real. We've had rate
cuts. We're getting tax refunds. You've
got all this CapEx coming from major
companies in this country. How
supportive of that will this be of this
economy in the face of real energy shock
coming out of the Middle East?
>> It will continue to be supportive and
drive growth forward. Last year, the
narrative was all about headwinds coming
from the trade war. The Nike swoosh
bottom that we're standing at at the
moment is all about the three tailwinds
that are now emerging. We have a lot of
spending on AI, a lot of spending on
data centers, a lot of spending on
energy associated with AI. We also
productivity gains from AI. We also have
on top of that an industrial
renaissance. There's a huge political
desire to bring back production of
everything from pharmaceuticals to
semiconductors, of course, also to
defense. That's also an engine of
growth. And most importantly, as you
mentioned, John, we also have the one
big beautiful bill. Last year, on
average, tax refunds was around $3,000.
We calculate that this year, on average,
tax refunds will be around $4,000. Why
is that the case? Because the one big
beautiful bill lowered taxes
retroactively starting January 1, 2025.
That means that we have all paid too
much in taxes when we go and file our
taxes here on April the 15th. That means
over the next several months, consumer
spending should continue to see strong
tailwinds. That's what we're seeing in
retail sales. That's what you see in
your weekly data from Redbook same-store
retail sales. That's what you see in TSA
travel data. That's what you see in the
daily data for travel across the board.
So, the conclusion is there is a lot of
momentum in this economy because of AI
spending, because of the industrial
renaissance, and because of the one big
beautiful bill. This momentum just
smack-dab ran into what we're seeing
that started in March and has continued
with this, which is the conflict in
Iran, the closure of the Strait of
Hormuz, and higher commodity prices more
broadly.
Most people come on the show say it's
both an inflation shock and a growth
shock, but they think that the growth
shock's going to be a more significant
outcome. It seems like you disagree and
that based on all of that momentum,
you'd see inflation as the bigger shock.
Is that right?
>> Absolutely, because if you look at the
incoming data for the last month or so
while this conflict has lasted, if you
look at the daily data of how many
people travel on airplanes, it's still
strong. If you look at the weekly data
for hotel demand, occupancy rates, the
daily rate, RevPAR, also very strong. If
you look at the weekly data for retail
sales, also very strong. There's even
weekly data also for wide range of other
indicators when it comes to credit
cards, also strong. So, yes, there may
be some demand destruction, but the key
conclusion now is we're just not seeing
that yet. So, if that's the case, all
the inflationary pressures that come
from, also, let's not forget, trade war.
If you have goods ex-autos have also
been going up. You also have, of course,
immigration restrictions is also
inflationary. And now you have some oil
price shock and a strong economy. The
risk is that we will continue to see
inflation stay higher for longer and
because of that, rates are likely to
also going to stay higher for longer.
Let's not forget, the first Fed cut, as
we speak, is now in October of 2027.
That's like far, far out in the future.
The market is not expecting that rates
are going to come down anytime soon.
Torsten Slok of Apollo is going to be
sticking with us. Let's bring in Bill
Dudley, the former New York Fed
President. He joins us now for more.
Bill, you were following what Torsten
had to say about the US economy. Does
this Federal Reserve have the luxury of
waiting and doing nothing through the
next several months?
I think they It's not a luxury, it's a
necessity because the uncertainty about
what how the war is going to be resolved
and how high energy prices are going to
be and how long they're going to stay
elevated is still highly uncertain. And,
you know, to the point that you raised
earlier, this is both a shock to growth
and a shock to inflation. So, the Fed is
back where they were, you know, a year
ago where they were worried about both
sides of the mandate. And then,
as we went through the 2025, they got
became less worried about inflation and
and they became less worried about
growth. But now I think they're now
worried about both. And so, I think in
the current environment, they're just
going to sit on their hands for quite
some time.
That actually is a refreshing outcome
outcome for some in markets. Just a
couple of weeks ago, people were worried
about rate hikes at the Federal Reserve
and that was the outcome that people
thought was unsustainable. Now the idea
that Torsten Slok was just talking about
about no rate cuts until October 2027 is
thought of as palatable. Do you think
that a rate hike could still be on the
table based on the heat in the economy
that we've seen in over across a number
of metrics?
Well, I think the Fed is inclined to
look through price shocks that they view
as temporary. That's their sort of going
in proposition.
But
at the end of the day, inflation
expectations really matter and inflation
expectations depend in part on how the
Fed behaves. So, let's imagine that the
Fed said, "Oh, we're just going to look
through the oil price shock and cut
rates today." Uh then maybe inflation
expectations wouldn't stay well
anchored, and then the Federal Reserve
would have a problem on their hands. So,
I think I think how how the Fed is
thinking about it is inflation
expectations is dependent in part on how
we behave, and the best thing to the
best way to behave right now is to do
nothing until we can be more certain
about which risk is is the predominant
risk at the current time. So, Bill, just
to make sure that I understand, you
would say you're saying that should
break-even rates start to creep higher,
or if surveys start to show that people
were expecting inflation to remain
entrenched, that this Federal Reserve
would have an incentive to even talk
about rate hikes, let alone actually do
them, just to bring things into
submission.
Well, I think if inflation expectation
become unanchored, then the the story
changes pretty dramatically. You know, I
mean, the news so far is there's no real
sign of inflation expectations becoming
unanchored. You look at break-even
inflation 5-year 5-year forwards,
uh they're actually very low. If you
look at the household expectation
surveys that we've had so far, uh
long-term inflation expectations are
still well anchored. But remember, the
energy shock, we don't really still know
how big it's going to be and how or how
long it's going to last. I mean, every
day that the strait is blocked uh it's
another, you know, 10 million barrels a
day that are lost to the global economy.
And so, the you know, the the the the
the peak in oil and natural gas prices
remains to be determined.
And Bill, in terms of you're thinking
about the research piece that came out
yesterday where the Fed is now saying,
and I know there's a number of different
research pieces coming out all the time
about this, but specifically saying the
day before the employment report that
they now think the break-even rate for
nonfarm payrolls is less than 10,000 as
it said.
What's your thoughts going into the
process around them publishing that, and
do you think this has any significance,
or it's pretty important that they are
also now saying, like many on Wall
Street, that maybe the break-even rate
is really moving down closer to zero?
Well, I think the break-even rate has
fallen sharply. I mean, if you crush the
amount of people that can come into the
United States, and the population is
aging, baby boom generation's retiring,
so then labor force growth is going to
be pretty close to zero. And if labor
force is pretty close to zero, then
payroll growth needs to be pretty close
to zero to keep the unemployment rate
stable. Uh so, I think this is something
that is absolutely right. I mean, so we
have a we sort of have that funny
a situation compared to a couple years
ago,
where the labor market's pretty, you
know, isn't very vibrant, but if it were
vibrant, the Fed would the Fed Reserve
would actually have a problem because
the unemployment rate would be screaming
at lower. Bill, I remember spending some
time with you and Muhammad coming out of
the pandemic, and it certainly wasn't
consensus to say what you were saying at
the time. And you were talking about the
prospect for much higher inflation
becoming a problem, and I still remember
you saying that the Fed could take
interest rates to 5%, and we were near
zero at the time, and it sounded insane.
And you were right, sir. What do you
think people are underestimating this
time around? I'm not suggesting this is
2022. I just want to understand where
you are on 26, and what we might be
underestimating.
I think the war is the biggest risk. Uh
you know, opening up the strait is is
really, you know,
critically important to how high energy
prices go. And you know, I think the
markets are still I think
underestimating that risk. They sort of
assume that the war is going to be
wrapped up relatively quickly, that oil
is going to flow. And then if the you
know, that could that could be right,
but there's definitely a tail risk that
the this whole thing is going to drag
out much longer than people anticipate.
Bill, it's good to see you. Thanks so
much for taking time for us, as always.
William Dudley there, the former New
York Fed president on the risks emerging
in the Middle East.
>> Yeah, and if that does go for a longer
period of time, how much is it an
inflation shock, and how much is it a
growth shock? I mean, it gets back to
the same story that we've been talking
to all morning, and the key debate of
how resilient is the economy to absorb
price increases by consumers. I'll tell
you what worries me. Sure.
>> Because clearly I have a worry. It's got
to be something.
>> My significant worry is if the US
economy is maintaining itself, and you
have the lower end of the K, if you have
lower-income middle-income consumers
that are feeling the hit from higher
prices that much more, they're not
seeing significant wage gains, and the
economy keeps chugging along, and that K
widens out that much more, that is a
very painful situation for a lot of
households, and that seems like a likely
outcome should this go on for a longer
period of time.
>> That would be painful with gasoline
prices at $4 and climbing, and north of
those levels in some place across this
country. The conflict for me, and we've
talked about this tension all week, is
the shift of the consensus view.
The consensus view at the start of the
year was we'd get a cyclical rebound for
all the reasons Torsten describes. That
was the consensus view. The consensus
view now is that this economy isn't
strong enough to generate second-order
inflation re-effects. I think there's
some real tension in that. Torsten,
would you agree? Absolutely. If you type
ECFC go on your Bloomberg screen, you
will see that the consensus for the rest
of this year expects inflation to
basically be above three by the end of
the year. That's not good because the
Fed's target is that it should be two,
and that tells you that if inflation is
going to be more sticky, and we now have
more uncertainty about oil prices
creating additional impetus to the
upside for inflation, that does indeed
create a very very uncomfortable
situation for the Fed. Torsten, you're
going to stick with us, I'm happy to
say. Let's give you an update on news
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Yahaira has more. Hey, Yahaira. Hi,
John. Recapping our top story, the jobs
report. Nonfarm payrolls showing a
strong upside surprise in March with
178,000 [music]
jobs added, well above estimates of
65,000. The unemployment rate ticking
down [music]
to 4.3%, a tenth of a percentage lower
than expectations. [music]
President Trump is proposing a $1.5
trillion defense [music] budget, pairing
it with a 10% cut to domestic spending.
The plan is tied to the Iran war, and
sets up a sharp political fight in
Congress ahead of the midterms with
Republicans [music] split on deep cuts,
but likely backing those defense hikes.
And SpaceX [music] is testing a $2
trillion IPO valuation ahead of investor
[music] road shows, potentially making
it the biggest listing ever. The Elon
Musk-led company could raise up to $75
[music]
billion as early as June, vaulting it
past Tesla and Meta in size. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John. Yahaira, thank
you, and thanks for this morning. This
is really
the Jim Bianco argument over at Apollo,
your good friend and colleague, which is
the capital markets are still wide open.
We're talking about all these risks, and
they are real risks, and I'm not
underestimating [music] those at all.
We've talked about the seriousness of
them over the last month, but the fact
is that we could see some [music] of the
biggest IPOs ever in this country over
the next several months, and not just
one, but maybe two or three. Yeah,
they're talking about Anthropic, Open
AI. We're talking about XAI. And this
comes after the biggest month, the
biggest quarter for global M&A ever. So,
that really highlights just how wide
open capital markets are.
>> Lots of debt supply as well, Bremo. It's
been across the board. Up next, we'll
set you up for the week ahead, plus
we'll get you more final words from
Apollo's Torsten Slok.
Right now, uh the the focus is
>> [music]
>> on,
uh you know, finishing the job. How much
more investment will there be in the
Middle East if people aren't worried
that the Iranians are going to be
throwing rockets at them all the time.
These are all long-run big positive
effects, and if uh this ends shortly,
then I think that you're going to see a
recovery even in the places that are are
currently most heavily burdened by
[music] this. In the meantime, there's a
real energy shock to deal with. That was
the National Economic Council director
Kevin Hassett following a much better
than expected jobs report in this
[music] country. Some real momentum,
some signs of that in the US economy.
Equity futures stopped trading about 35
minutes ago at 9:15 Eastern time. They
closed lower by about [music] 0.3% on
the S&P. On Nasdaq 100 futures, down by
a third of 1% also. You get a few more
hours of trading in Treasuries. [music]
Yields are higher by five basis points
at the front end of the curve. The
2-year up to 384, the 10-year up to 435.
No trading in crude today, but some
disruptions [music]
once again. Bremo, overnight.
>> Yeah, in Kuwait in particular, to a
plant over there, also an attack on a
desalination plant. So, again, real
concerns about civilian infrastructure.
It is such a strange moment. How [music]
much does the labor market data count
given A, the fluctuations, and B, that
it's backward-looking before the shock?
People are saying it does count. It
shows momentum.
>> And let's get to the data for the next
week. Your trading diary looks like
this. On Monday, ISM services data. On
Wednesday, the Fed minutes, some details
of an interesting last meeting. On
Thursday, another round of jobless
[music] claims. And on Friday, CPI
inflation data. Inflation data carries
some extra weight over the next few
months, for sure. [music] How much will
it be the priority right now for a Fed
since the labor market picture has been
checked off? It looks pretty [music]
good. You actually saw the unemployment
rate come down. Okay, over to you, CPI.
How much is it increasing? I understand
that they don't target [music] headline
CPI, but it goes into inflation
expectations longer term, which is very
much something that's on the radar of
this Fed.
>> This data point feels like the odd one
out. It dropped just moments ago from
S&P. US services PMI falling to a 3-year
low, [music] contraction rate 49.8.
>> Yeah, and seeing the composite PMI
coming in also at the lowest since 2023.
[music] What do we do with that? I'm not
sure. We're looking at it, trying to
understand where it fits in. It is an
aberration relative to the upside
surprises. Nonetheless, speaks to
potentially, [music]
if you're going to create a narrative to
one data point, which is about to do,
but you shouldn't do, is that maybe
people are pushing back on services.
Torsten Slok of Apollo with us around
the table for final word. It was a good
attempt. It looks like the odd one out,
that data point, doesn't it? Absolutely.
But I mean, if the conversation from the
textbook perspective, when you have an
oil price shock, we all sit and say,
"Oh, that's stagflationary. That's
stagflationary." But, let's think about
what this number and this week's numbers
have told us. We got very strong ISM. We
got very strong retail sales. We strong
jobless claims. Now, strong nonfarm
payrolls. There is no sign of demand
destruction. If anything, this is not
stagflationary. This is pointing more
towards overheating. And that's why the
keyword in markets should be not so much
what's happening with growth, because
this week we were just told that growth
is actually okay. It really more is the
worry about growth is okay because of
this momentum coming from AI spending,
industrial renaissance, and the one big
beautiful bill, as Lisa was saying, that
we should begin to worry about that
maybe the upside to inflation is still
here. Give me a number. Give me a range.
What kind of numbers should we be
thinking about for inflation?
Well, the problem is that inflation, of
course, on the headline is now about to
go up. The Fed's model this shock alone
will lift inflation by 0.7% points. Core
inflation will only go up by 0.1. But,
the challenge is that we still have in
the background that core goods ex-autos
are going up. We still have restrictions
on immigration putting some upward
pressure on wage inflation. Yes, it was
a little bit weaker today, but it still
is at 3 and 1/2% still very strong
average hourly earnings relative to
where we were 6 years ago. So, the short
answer to your question is, I think the
risk is now that there's upward momentum
not only in headline, but also in core
inflation. So, we are going to stick
around 3% for the next 6 months because
of this combination of shocks. You talk
about the three pillars of this growth
momentum, the AI spending, industrial
renaissance, and the one big beautiful
bill. At what point do higher yields,
higher inflation constrain the capital
market story that is underpinning both
the AI spending and the industrial
renaissance?
>> what is unique about that question is
that two of these forces are really not
that sensitive to what interest rates
are doing. Namely, AI spending will
happen no matter what. We're in the
midst of an AI revolution. So, no matter
what the Fed funds rate is going up or
down, there will be tons of investment
in AI. Likewise, when it comes to
industrial renaissance, this is a
political desire to bring back
production of all kinds of things from
pharmaceuticals through everything in
defense through everything going on
across the board in semiconductors.
That's also not so much a function of
what interest rates are doing. So, in
that sense, from a transmission
mechanism perspective, the sensitivity
to interest rates is really not high
when it comes to AI spending and the
industrial renaissance. And the one big
beautiful bill is definitely not
sensitive to interest rates at all. So,
the risks are that the economy is just
getting better and better over the next
several quarters because these forces
are no longer just as sensitive as they
used to be to the Fed hiking rates. So,
could we see an economy that continues
to grow even as we see a credit cycle
take place, where some of the weaker
hands that are still out there get
shaken out because they cannot exist
with these rates and this rate of
inflation, and they have not had to face
it in real terms uh because they've had
debt that's been termed out?
>> I totally agree because the challenge
now is in credit that in credit there is
a spectrum of what is your coverage
ratio, meaning what is your sensitivity
to interest rates staying higher. And
companies that have low coverage ratios,
companies that have no earnings, no
revenue, no cash flow, of course,
they're going to continue to struggle
when rates are higher for longer. So,
that means that in credit, the most
prime example, of course, is software,
those businesses that have no earnings
will continue to not do well, whereas
high-quality credit, those companies
that actually have earnings that are
able to pay the debt servicing cost,
they should continue to do well. And
that's exactly the shakeout that we're
seeing. The overall default rate for
high-yield loans is going down, but
there are certainly some mini cycles
going on in those uh parts of credit
that do have lower coverage ratios.
>> Torsten, this was a clinic, and we
appreciate your time. Thanks for making
time for us. Torsten Slok there of
Apollo on the risk to inflation, not the
risk to growth in the US. And I wonder
how much of an island the United States
is right now given the pain we're seeing
elsewhere in the global economy. Very
much of an island. I mean, everybody was
talking about how this would be the year
of broadening out, of uh diversifying
regions in terms of the performance.
What you're seeing right now is suddenly
a mass and violent rethink of that with
the sort of flood back into US assets.
How isolated can the US be and how
resilient can it be given the fact that
we do have a lot of momentum in the
economy at the same time that the uh
price shock could be significant.
>> suggesting this operation, this war, as
many people call it, will go another two
to three weeks. We're already seeing
shortages across Asia. You can see how
painful it is in physical markets right
now, and you can see where the shortages
will show up next. It's not going to be
great if this continues over the next
several weeks. Prices could go a lot
higher, and this is what we talk about
with all the commodity strategists who
come on. And honestly, they need a
vacation. Please, if you're a commodity
strategist, I imagine you need to sleep
in, have a stiff one tonight. Good luck.
You advising people drink? No, a stiff
one of tea.
>> of course. Yes, a strong brew.
>> A strong brew. Ooh, of course.
>> [laughter]
>> I'm so British.
As Jim Cramer said, what was it? Take a
walk. Take a walk. Take a walk. Drink a
strong brew. There you go. What a jobs
number, 178,000. The estimate our
survey, 65K. Coming up on Monday on
Bloomberg TV, Cameron Dawson of NewEdge
Wealth, Matt Miskin of John Hancock,
Jason Thomas of Carlyle, Kayla Seed of
State Street. For all of you at home,
thank you for choosing Bloomberg TV. To
those who celebrate, have a blessed
weekend and a very happy Easter. From
New York City, this was Bloomberg
Surveillance.